it is yeah three two one boom and we're
live we're talking about yoga and your
summons yesl Simmons he moved to Bali
because he's worried about them
extraditing know if he's worried but I
I'm this is all conjecture this is what
I've heard but I just bought him up
because he had the yoga studio here did
he yeah and he gave me a month free a
month free high-end yoga thing like you
just show up in your clothes they give
you the mat towels blocks everything and
everybody was awesome and I went every
day for a month and did yoga next to
Russell Simmons Wow and he was like
amazing a fan yeah and I was like really
feeling it I felt great and then stuff
happening it's so easy man slide away
hey man I love that guy did I have a
funny story what do you think is more
important in stand-up to be polished or
to be wrong there's no more important
thing they're both very important but
Joey Diaz is not polished at all and
he's the funniest guy that I've ever
seen yeah no one's ever made me laugh
harder he's not polished he's raw as
fuck but raw alone is not good because
some guys like Jeselnik is very polished
and he's very funny
you're very polished you're very funny
yes it's there's no there's no one thing
you know it's like comedies oh it's art
it's gnar it's an expression of who you
are if you're a polished person and you
try to come off raw it's gonna look
corny so I brought that up because I am
I don't know young 20s Def Jam is having
auditions it just moved from New York to
LA and Beverly Hills is where the taping
was just ironic in itself and but I was
wrong yeah you remember those when you
go hit it DJ and you have music you yes
sir I auditioned and Bushwick bill was
one of the judges it was like a I
auditioned that all jokes aside in
Chicago
and I got picked I was one of the people
to get picked to tape Def Jam first time
I was ever flown out anywhere first time
I ever came to was flown to Los Angeles
I've been here before
stayed at the hotel Sofitel whoa but
what happened is I got picked I was
wrong about three months went by I went
on a tour of North Dakota South Dakota
Minneapolis where none of those Def Jam
jokes worked so I started like getting
polished a little bit right so when I
went to tape Def Jam I did it and I got
I think seven applause breaks but I
didn't get the standing ovation and I
remember when I got off stage at one
comedian said way to keep him seated and
Russell walked right past me like I just
wanted him to see me so I knew I wasn't
going the air right and I got that wait
he's got seven of seven wouldn't air
well I got a note I got it I got my
first rejection letter saying thank you
so much but you you you won't be airing
the airs what the head rod man and they
had two other people and then so I felt
like shit you know I mean like why I was
like am i black enough like go like damn
I'm not a part of Def Jam I want to be
touring I make these audiences laugh but
what I auditioned with it was straight
from Maryland like straight just raw
like all bravado I wasn't talking about
anything and I went to these other
cities and it was kind of like I was
kind of like finding my style right how
many years have you been doing it at the
time I was probably doing I started at
19 but I you know that's that's the
college start mmm and then you but I
think I started doing the full-time at
22 and I was probably 26 so maybe four
years arrogant though like you know
Rob's your future act
I knew always kept a time clock
sometimes I would go long but I would
but I was I was very proud of like if
they said do trail I would do 12 you
know I mean that County and I was I was
getting standing ovations but I wanted
talking about it and then I started like
doing these other states
and I was like okay fine don't get don't
get it
so my objection my I really needed
Russell Simmons to like me like you know
I mean he meant so much to the culture
and to and he just when he just didn't
see me I just like to him years go by
and it the the pain of it like
diminishes but it's still kind of in
there but it's you know it's like a
Marvel villain like you like I gotta
yeah I must stuff but it kind of so then
Russell has another show and I didn't
even think I was going to get picked my
only goal was just to make him laugh cuz
he what he was at the audition it was in
New York I was living in New York he was
there and staying late them with it was
there and this is years later I found I
know who I was I knew what I was you
know coming to say I didn't know if it
was gonna match their show and and when
I'm saying is like Def Jam prided itself
on Raw like being raw you know I mean
and unlike you know a new voice and then
I so I didn't fit like what they were
selling you know so then when I saw
Russell and saying I do my act I see
Russell grabs stomach and go over it so
I'm I'm good if I get the show I get it
if I don't get it I'm good I see Stanley
thing go I see them do the whisper I
literally don't care if I get to show I
did what I said I'll to do right so all
the other comments are staying back to
schmooze and like I left I left I didn't
I end up getting the show and this is
the show now when Russell was sitting in
the audience and their comics sitting up
there and I'm doing my act and I was I
was talking about HBO hung that show
about I do with a big dick for real
that's what we doing like that now and I
did like the stereotype game and all
this stuff and and I did one joke and I
remember Russell got up and gave me up
gave me a pound in the middle of my set
it was you can see all the comics like
and I was like so it was like the full
circle of 24 year old me and beat it and
then 32 34 year old me maybe Russell oh
my man and then I would go
you know then I was doing yoga with him
for a little bit but we never hung pose
it was just like you know just like I
don't know it just didn't fully circle
moment call you and say I'm giving you
this month free yoga was there part of
doing the show how did that happen no he
used to be at all deaf he can't hear at
all deaf digital so he moved here and I
think I my dear to pitch him something
you know you do yoga and he just gave me
a month free and I was like imma taking
so every morning I would wake up and
drive and I didn't know I was gonna be
in his class like Usher Raymond are
being there he was really incredible
yeah like all these people would be in
there and I was gonna fight it really
have you ever seen him train no uh sure
has videos online of him training at
Black House and he's legit
Wow like he's a legit skilled fighter I
believe it like he's got like real good
hands he can throw kicks everything yeah
he is probably the Kobe of army really I
feel like he out works everybody you
know when I saw him in yoga class I was
like who else is doing this like in your
field like I don't know yoga is
something you don't get any credit for
doing knows it's fucking hardest shit
but it seems like no big deal like if
you say all ran seven miles today people
are whoa yeah I did yoga today but it's
really I I felt so good when I was doing
it and III don't think I didn't tell
anybody I was doing it like my wife knew
I was going yeah but it is it's a
personal thing it's like golf right it's
a personal it is just you against your
body and Russell you give me tips you
know it's about breathing in difficult
situations he would always say that I
never forgot that mm-hmm it is about
breathing yeah yeah it's about breathing
that's what life is like life is going
to give you difficult situations and if
you don't remember to breathe fur you're
fucked
yeah out of like the whole the premise
of it well I feel like we operate on a
scale and
the least difficulty you have in your
life the more difficult it is to
encounter real adversity so when you
give yourself voluntary difficulty so I
volunteer to work out hard I've
volunteered do Jiu Jitsu I've
volunteered to yoga I've pushed myself
to do these things when actual real-life
difficulties come along like they're
hard but there's never a time in life
where it's as hard as a 90 minute yoga
class Wow
you're sweating like crazy you barely
can stand up you try your feet a cramp
and your legs tramping pouring sweat
pouring down on the mats but I mean it's
temporary you know it's gonna end in 40
50 seconds whatever the poses but that
much to just hang in there is so hard
that I think it prepares you for other
thing other than like the loss of a
loved one or something like that that's
impossible
compare yourself for but just bullshit
stress right just regular life bullshit
stress yoga class makes that stuff look
like nonsense if you're doing yoga on a
regular basis yeah well it was something
I'm consistently inconsistent you know
what I mean but I'll go through a phase
so before the Russell thing I went to a
hot Bikram class that's what I do so I
went to a hot Bikram and this when I was
single so I was basically just following
the asses and yeah I remember was a big
room and everything was chilling you
know I literally had never done this at
all i was literally pop just you know I
don't know why I don't know why and I
just remember they closed all the
windows and they stopped the fans and it
started getting really hot and I was
doing the poses and I was shaking and
like you said I sweating profusely and
the only thing I knew was it was
supposed to be a place of no judgement
they kept going it's it's your journey
you should go practice no judgement
until 8:00 he had a little Mike thing
and she came over to me and she covered
it and she whispered to me
[Laughter]
while Buster loves like I couldn't and
so I didn't really go back after that my
ego was bruised a little bit and so I
would do it at home sometimes preparing
to go back I could not get judged and
when I left like she was like the
teacher was like on the cover of the
magazine in front of in hand like she
legit yeah and so but why she did it was
so funny
[Laughter]
terrible it's fucking hard man and the
reason why they asked you if you are
Reich's is sometimes people are not all
right yeah like I've seen people almost
blackout where they have to lay down oh
yeah cuz it's 105 degrees in there and
if you're not used to that kind of
exercise in that kind of temperature if
you have you know a per you want people
that just that stuff gets to you and you
can handle panel yeah you can
legitimately pass out it'll need that I
remember just remember Bally's gym yeah
I remember now I used to live one on the
baddies at the bottom in here when I
belong to Bally's you know and I would
go you know I went through a period I'm
going when it opens and so I went I
think it opened at six maybe
damn you're a six o'clock in the morning
guy I did that for a minute get there
salon I said how come we can't go in
industry this may be somebody's dead in
the pool it was a good body like
floating in in the valleys whoa and then
I don't forget this other lady goes he
got out his contract notorious for not
letting you out yeah leasing out his
contract and then everybody still
waiting well 24-hour Fitness is the
weirdest one do you sign it for like ten
years so I got a dollar a week they
don't give a fuck they know you're not
coming right oh yeah yeah yeah we're
help you with your goals yeah yeah yeah
you gonna get fit you're gonna get
jacked we're gonna get ripped like Bobby
over here look at Bobby Bobby shows up
every day like wow I'm gonna be like
Bobby and then you just start eating
chips yeah drinking soda he'll never
show up
it's a I wonder like what are the
percentage or one if we can find this
what
the percentages of members in 24 hours
24 Hour Fitness that actually go on a
regular basis else that's a great house
to share that they wouldn't share you
know you're probably right yeah because
then people would go why my son under
for that yeah yeah that's a great hustle
man I did I had a 24 hour fitness for a
moment and then I would go and it would
be so crowded I would just go home
sometimes it's real crime yeah and even
yeah I can't do anything then some of
them like you couldn't use all of them
to you just don't have that much what
are you talking about axes like that too
oh I did Equinox for a second now this
is a 24-hour club sport yeah like what
yeah I did Equinox for a second I got to
play basketball magic really yeah he was
in there working out every morning why
not on Arsenio too so he did so just
play a pickup game people know I didn't
you he would he would shoot around and I
just kind of like made myself like
available on the court I'm just there
when the ball went through the room I
went got to rebound I gave it to him and
he shot another one I got to rebound
he'll always wanted to rebound for you I
gave my pants and he did the classic
hook and it goes and now you got in the
cyst so and in dinner cuz a lot of
basketball players to come up there and
I look at him like man I'm glad I
couldn't but magic is huge man like yeah
have you seen in person no huge strike
and I'm 65 so but his back is like I
like I had hoop dreams until I played
against Grant Hill in high school
Grant Hill is 69 and it was a Christmas
tournament my mom was there and my
girlfriend at the time I shout out to
married now my girlfriend Sarah was
there and I had a router section you
know we were the home team and Grant
Hill comes in and my coach I had me
check up and I never I guarantee you you
won't remember this but uh it's just in
court a crossover right and most people
if you cross over I'm I'm still in front
of you
grant was so long when he did put the
ball
this hand to this hand I I had to
literally slide two steps and then when
he'd been back I had to slide back two
steps and when he went up here there was
no way I could get up there and so I
told my girlfriend yo go home like
that's cool like 60 please he was
shooting from half-court like he just
looked at us like I was like I'm a dude
well in school that's a fascinating
thing when you see someone who's a
world-class athlete the beginning of
their journey you know this is in high
school high school yeah I was getting
you there journey yeah right cuz he's
really just getting becoming a man yeah
it's not even really a man yet nope
hey but you see already like they have
that jump
I'm sure Jordan was like I'm sure
there's no wasn't Jordan like didn't
make his high school team yeah and that
crazy who cut him you know you know that
coach had when he went home that night
had to talk to his wife like I think I
made it terrible mistake but I probably
didn't realize it because he the time
Jordan problem well Jordan is not the
biggest guy in the world either right
house halls easy six four six six six
six six six but compared to some of
those giants like we understand that
like Shaq is the most ridiculous human
being isn't that credibly so his hands
are as big as his table yeah they just
reach out and just swallow your arm yeah
so big lives in my neighborhood a word
yeah I did a commercial with him in
there it never aired we did like a
series of spots and he was like a big
kid man he was so fun he's a fun guy
just a factor with them you did he did a
whole episode he came in cuz we did it
in Orlando he was a fan so he brought
his whole family down he had a bus he
brought tour bus to hang out him so fun
and then he you know he did it there
three two one go and I'm standing next
to him like a little six-year-old with
my dad it's hilarious yeah but yeah
there's there's people that are just a
different man they're just different
level athletes and I bet Jordan as good
as he was you know it probably he needed
that rejection to turn that burner on
yeah to make him Jordan yeah real
George's yeah yeah and that's always
gonna be a story that he was cut from
his high school basketball team yeah I
think he bought up in Hall of Fame's I
think so yeah the Hall of Fame speech
when he kept shitting on all the salah
classes right
you remembered all of them although
you're Michael Jordan why even bringing
these guys up nobody even cares wouldn't
let it go that's why it was so great
yeah that burning fire they would say
that if you beat him at pool he would
hate you for two weeks until he play you
again amazing used to have a pool
tournament he would do in Chicago every
year and it was for charity so you'd
have all these celebrities come and play
pool with him but you know he wasn't a
good pool player it was like it was okay
but there's like real pool players out
there they'll fuck you up it up and if
he got beat he would be furious
apparently just couldn't handle it but
that's the case with everyone who's
great at something they don't want to
lose it shit they don't want to lose it
backgammon Parcheesi yeah you know is
that healthy at a certain point oh you
might turn that off it's so unhealthy
yeah it's so unhealthy but that's what
makes them great it's like there's
there's a pro and a con to everything
you know I have a saying that I've
always said that greatness and madness
are next-door neighbors and they borrow
each other's sugar mm you can't be great
unless you're a little crazy and if you
can't be the best ever unless you're out
of your fucking mind and Jordans clear
when you see him in that that Pratt that
that speech when he's talking about the
Hall of Fame when he's talking about
getting inducted and all the people that
are wrong all people that he's angry
still I mean he's a crazy person this is
the one of your great highlights as
recognized the greatest basketball
player of all time think about how many
people have played basketball millions
of people all over this country and
millions of people around the world
there's one guy if everybody says who's
the greatest basketball player it's
Michael motherfucking Jordan right I
mean you've got your other people
you got your dissenters who say well I
think LeBron theory what that I have a
theory about that so here's my thing I
feel like that's the wrong narrative I
feel like so here's my friend and I we
were talking about what is greatness
right greatness is clearly the numbers
and accolades and the wins but greatness
is also
being able to overcome great difficulty
and still perform and so adding that
into the formula I feel like out of
everyone that's a part of the
conversation LeBron is the only one who
never met his dad like Jordan knew his
dad
Kobe rest in pieces that played in the
NBA magic knew his dad Kareem knew his
dad it's a thing you know
LeBron tall his dude in Akron walking
around every day you see another tall
dude he had to be like that just
mentally right like who taught him the
game like Jordan had these great
teachers and all that so I feel like the
questions should be Michael join us to
the greatest of all time with two
parents but with one parent LeBron is
the greatest and Kevin Durant is like a
cousin interesting way of looking at it
just because you is different starting
lines but there's so many different
variables to take place in life from
birth to death to just isolate one
factor like not having a father
well I'm but I mean it's like all of
Jordan talked about when he got cut from
his team his dad was the one who pushed
he was his greatest motivator like he
had that like who was doing that for
LeBron bran who taught him the game like
Jordan went to NC State where Dean Smith
was one of the greatest you know
everyone talks about Jordans
fundamentals weighted LeBron learn is
from hmm who was teaching them this
stuff and if and so it's it's just a
different space and it's like I'm relate
to LeBron because I was raised by a
single mom so I recognize myself more in
him than in Jordan
it's a very you know nuanced thing but I
feel like when people go who's the
greatest I'm like man I do that to
parents like it's like if you motivation
the thing
about having two parents versus one is
there something about having one parent
that gives you this insane motivation to
drive this drive to succeed that's a
that's a factor in a lot of people there
was a factor in me yeah growing up
because I didn't grow up with my dad
yeah no you're not knowing my dad talked
to my dad since I was seven years old
okay so that and the fact that I knew
him up until I was six and then didn't
talk to him for the rest of my life yeah
that fuck with me
yeah and that there's a part of that
there's a part of that that would make
you like I'll show you motherfuckers
like you guys don't think I'm worth
anything I'll show you yeah there's
something that like Mike Tyson had that
like a lot of people had that a lot of a
lot of great athletes had terrible up
rings and it's almost a positive factor
right you know you could say that
Jordans dad was a positive factor and
that that can work as well but it also
sometimes it can be a positive factor to
be ignored having a difficult childhood
can actually be a positive factor oh
definitely I mean look LeBron was a
billionaire it clearly was a positive
fact how it worked out
oh definitely it worked out I'm just
saying in the debate I know what you're
saying it was the greatest yeah I know
it could there's two different ways that
could go yeah but it's also like they
did they're playing in different eras
that's a that's a like to see the Tyson
Fury Deontay Wilder finest all clips oh
my gosh were you there
no no I watched it home holy shit how
biggest fear you know whew six seven
almost no six nine Deonte six seven
Furies 6-9 6-9 270 pounds and he just
figured he figured out in the first
fight that Deonte in the twelfth round
he started back at the ante up the ante
can't fight backing up because Yount a
is a guy who pushes forward and he's got
this ridiculous power right and
everybody scared of powers everybody
moving all the time and fury realized in
the 12th round after Deonte knocked him
down almost knocked him out he got up
and started chasing Deonte and Deonte
fought sloppy he'd said he looked
awkward he said his footwork didn't look
so good technique yeah well it's Deonte
is known as being this guy who's got him
Eraser his right hands are gonna race
her all the mistakes
Teddy out let's put it this way all the
mistakes of the previous
I'll get erased with one partner just
shuts people's lights out and he has
that confidence that he has that eraser
power but with Tyson Fury realized like
look Tyson doesn't fight that way
Tyson Fury fights on his toes he sticks
and moves he did a lot of head movement
and a lot a lot of like shuckin and
jivin and he it makes it very difficult
for you to figure out what he's doing
like is he going here is he going there
is he moving as he jabot he'll come at
you like this with 2/3 fake jabs then a
jab at a right hand he'll throw a right
hand to the body then he'll throw a left
uppercut he'll step to the side of you
or throw a right hand he'll move out of
the way of poppy with a jab as he's
moving away he's like a very technical
like really sophisticated boxer if you
look at the movement that he does for
someone as big as him it's really kind
of crazy and it's not that he couldn't
step forward and smash people knock
people out and says he knows the sweet
science yes you know he knows the sweet
science but then he realized for this
fight he had to fight a different way to
shock Deonte he had to combat Deonte
full blast get in his face from the from
the jump and that's exactly what he did
he also trained changed trainers and he
went with Sugar Hill who's a quant
trainer Kronk is where Tommy Hearns came
from you know Gerald McClellan and some
of the great like knockout artists of
the past and Crompton from a manual
Stewart was known as being a very
offensive style of fighting they have
heavy jabs they don't touch you with the
jab they're smashing with a jab big
power in the right hand like Kronk was a
tacking aggressive style like they were
all known like they would wear those
Kronk shorts those yellow golden shorts
you saw a guy with Kronk shorts on that
motherfucker came to kill you
they thought in when they were in the
gym Emanuel Steward would turn the heat
up to 100 degrees so when they were
doing they were doing like hot yoga in
in the fucking crop gym because he
wanted to build up endurance in these
guys so when you would go into the crunk
gym in Detroit it was hot as fuck like
really hot and that's how he forced
everybody trained under extreme duress
he was a amazing amazing trainer he's a
guy who
rejuvenated wladimir klitschko when
Vladimir Klitschko was falling apart
because he hadn't gotten K out a few
times he his style just he didn't have
like an American style he had this like
sort of straight-up European style and
Emanuel Steward just shifted his style
and and just made him concentrate on
utilizing that long reach and the big
power that long jab so when Tyson Fury
went with a crunk trainer for this like
he was vet dead serious he was gone for
seek-and-destroy he told everybody
that's what he's gonna do too but nobody
believed him
everybody thought it was just a hustle
like him saying I'm gonna knock out
Deontay Wilder I'm gonna come after him
I'm gonna knock him out in two rounds
everybody's like you're out of your
fucking mind even Deonte was like you
don't believe a word you're saying
you're just talking you're not gonna try
to knock me out guys exist though he
figured out the puzzle he figured out
the puzzle in the 12th round of the
first fight he just realized he had him
backing up he's like oh this guy
stumbles on his feet he gets all awkward
and got him backing up yeah so he just
just got to like glue he took that out
that's what I wanted to talk to you
about I want to stop fighting man no no
my son needs to know I want to talk to
you about first I want to thank you
because you've been very kind about just
promoting my stand-up in this plan oh
you're welcome dude I'm a huge fan Thank
You Man
you don't make any sense to me I know
you are one of the best comics in the
world and the fact that people don't
know who you are you should be filling
arenas so so this is what I'm doing I
made something and I want to give it to
your viewers so they can watch it and
judge for themselves if they just go to
text Owen comm text Owen darling calm
I'll send you some never-before-seen
stand-up in mind if you if you if you
fuck with it then we see what happens
I'll check back with you a little bit
later
oh there we go yeah you go then you do
know the improv with me Wednesday right
I am show icons delay show yeah
come hit me with that I'll text you
beautiful and after this podcast see how
many people whatever and I'm gonna send
you some never-before-seen standard if
you haven't seen me not for me with me
and it's kind of break your phone hey
man I said that's my prayer you know
what I mean cuz I you you don't
understand the the your your your kind
words how its affect affected my life in
a great way is I felt like wladimir
klitschko basically as far as my comedy
is concerned and then what you have like
dude I'm like doesn't make sense to me
and I know great comics you know most
comics when they get to you or your
level they're famous they're famous for
being really great comics well I see you
on stage like I was watching the last
time we worked together and I forget who
I was standing in the back of the room
talking to but I was like this doesn't
even make any sense I mean he's so good
he should be headlining arenas yeah it's
true it's like your comedy is so
polished and so and I was talking to
Tony about it I was Tony Hinchcliffe
wheel in the back watch and once I was
like look how economy of words like she
uses just the right amount of words like
you have to fill in the blank you make
people fill in the blank sometimes and
it makes things even funnier like that
that's that's all black belt shit man
it's like love it you just spent so much
time writing you know in writing for
sitcoms and running for movies and I
know it's been very lucrative for you
and it's it's great and you know you're
a great writer there's no question about
it but you're a world-class stand-up
Thank You Man thank you thank you thank
you true go to text okay let's go cuz
I'm serious man because it's like you
know how to business change you know I
thought that if you just had quality
work that yeah it would and then it's
it's it's it's just changed to something
that I TV shit all went away it all went
away and so
so we'll see we'll see I'm putting
myself out there
well you gotta get a special that's all
- yeah take four you know yeah exactly
look someone's gonna step up yeah that
would be great you know so we'll see but
I just want I wanted to thank you my
pleasure I'll see what happens hopefully
yeah break my phone y'all I wanna know
what experience that Comedy Central is I
mean Comedy Central's great I owe them a
debt of gratitude they put my special
out in 2014 and 2009 yeah
but the reality is it's like it's just
not the same anymore people aren't
watching it like they used to watch it
yeah they lost the public trust
somewhere yeah well they put out a lot
of bullshit shows yeah no yeah this
they're micromanaging things there's a
lot of people that are scared of
anything controversial yeah somebody
told me they fired a lot of people over
there but you know even hear that see
we'll see what's in a past Kyle Dunnigan
show Kyle Dunnigan funny he that fucking
shit that he does with Face Swap is the
funniest shit he's the funniest man on
instagram and there's a lot of funny
shit on the ramp but his shit clear like
makes me cry I cry sometimes watching
his stuff yeah he's a talented creative
guy and the fact that they didn't pick
that show up but I knew they were
fucking it up already because he showed
me this one clip it was Kaitlyn you know
he does everything with face walks right
he had Caitlyn Jenner on top of Donald
Trump fucking Donald Trump and it was
hilarious man he shows it to me in the
back room of the main room I'm crying
tears are coming down my eyes we're
laughing so hard he goes can get this
Comedy Central passed on that I go what
I know he said they said we can't do
that one they said we have we can't do
that one it's too controversial
I go controversial that's what you do
right everything you do is controversial
but it's so obvious that it's fake it's
funny because it's fate it's like South
Park like your fucking dummies what is
your most successful show
South Park what is what does that show
dude they don't give a fuck they go all
out yeah South Park has no boundaries
and it's one of the reasons why it's the
greatest comp it's the greatest comedy
show ever
yo man you
that's the thing that the that's the
thing about creating and depending on
invisible people to forget it because
yes you don't know where the nose coming
from right like what you just said is an
impassioned argument if you could sit
down with the the decision-maker and go
and just talk about yes maybe his show
would have gone but you like you don't
know who anybody is you write it you
know you're just going on this is good
you know and it's so hard because
there's the people that are watching it
and then judging whether or not they're
gonna put it on television first of all
they're not creative people if they were
they'll be doing what you're doing
yeah they're executives yeah and they
think they're smart they think they
understand comedy they also don't want
to get fired they don't also don't want
to get in trouble they also want to sell
ads there's so much fuckery going on
yeah you know what I wish I knew I wish
I knew what they're men they call it
mandates like what their mandates are
what they're dealing with
just so that because you get excited
about something and you push and you go
this is what I want to do and it is
sometimes you go oh man I don't think
they're considering the actual audience
that sounds so I don't but I you know I
don't know what they're considering you
know and it can drive you crazy
they're also seriously worried about
woke culture didn't want to make sure
like I've had friends they want to pitch
things and like where's the diversity
you know you know we know a trans
biracial woman in this we needed this we
needed that like hey just concentrate on
making it good regular grace make it
good
you know the I think your diversity
should be everybody who's good fine
people are good don't exclude them
because they're gay or trans or whatever
but don't include them because they are
if they're not talented just because
that's not good
you just need good you know it would be
nice if it was easy for all those people
of all different backgrounds to get up
in stand-up comedy clubs and then get
their career going and I don't know any
situation I mean I'm so far removed from
open mikes it's hard for me sometimes
you do what we should we should do
whatever happened that thing we did were
you with the notebooks yeah that was
hilarious
dude it was great it was great I was I
was thinking of giving that to people
when they text someone calm so I shot
six edit four and took it around town a
lot of people didn't get it a lot of
knows the people who loved it the most
was all things comedy hmm and they were
like we want to you know take this out
but I was partnered with somebody at the
time I had a manager at the time that
they didn't connect with so it kind of
went away and about why we were just
talking about this like this should be
on TV like it's such a clean simple fun
idea well it should be on YouTube it
should be it yeah that was my plan my
initial plan was to put it on YouTube
why don't you put on YouTube now um I
don't know I just there's somebody else
on it
nobody is always only on Oppie and all
right I'll put on YouTube when you uh
were you like supported I see you
understand man I'm so afraid of uh I'm
not afraid of no I just got to get the
first gut punch and then I'll keep going
you understand what saying like
something weird happened man my younger
self everything people are doing on
Instagram I did when I was 18 19 20 then
you get a little bit oh did you like
what's this tape what's going on but
when I when I talk about tick-tock yes
it came to me I thought I can't think of
the I think his name is chase Jarvis I
was looking at Chase Jarvis I never
heard of this guy but I used to watches
his interviews and he was always
sponsored by you know something very
cool he's a photographer and he had his
own show we started like in his home and
he would only average like 50,000 views
I'm like how is this guy doing this but
I thought notebooks could be something
like that that would speak to comedy
fans but my whole intention was to
because I felt like stand-up was being
like homogenized because when you would
just do some of these shows the set was
built and you would just stand there and
perform but it was no way of an audience
member to go I wanna follow this guy I
wanna come see this woman on this guy
lied so I thought notebooks and the show
would time I was called notebooks and
it's basically
every comment the one thing comics never
throw away is their own notebooks so I
would sit I sat down with Joe I sat down
with some other comics I couldn't
believe I found when this fun man he
stopped and you I was what you got to
see that you watch Joe go back to where
he was when he was like performing it I
could see it on your face I can see you
like remember like we you wrote this
stuff when you came up with it and it's
just I don't know it just shows that
this isn't like we make it look easy but
it's like it shows the journey it's also
like a way of like appreciating like cuz
sometimes we're hard on ourselves it's
like damn man I you know what I mean
like and this funny story like I thought
this bit was gonna make me this was
gonna shut it down this was my bring the
pain you know because I can listen to a
comedian and tell how long they've been
doing it you know and I wanted to I got
to this place where I don't believe
anybody sucks
I just believe they haven't found it yet
you know I'm interested in let me tell
you I'm there's some people that doesn't
matter this is a reality of the reality
yes reality yeah but I mean we became we
got into this space we're now you're
what people post everything online so
you're watching them like I have videos
of me in San Antonio Texas in 1996 great
but it's on a VHS tape in my basement
you know what I mean we're watching you
grow right people huh but now that would
be on YouTube and be like so when I did
hit some people blame I can't stand on
from something that they saw funny and
you know but you can't worry about that
though yeah yes that's you just got to
worry about what you're doing right now
yes I'm never worried about what you did
all right I'm gonna put a little
notebook I'm putting notebooks out yeah
definitely and uh do we found I found
some shit from 1991 right it was crazy
so the writing was so bad it was great
anyway Barris
fantastic but it just I hadn't met it
it's not I knew I had it so I grabbed it
and I brought it to you yeah but I
hadn't looked at it before you and I
were sitting there that's the point yeah
so when I was going through I was like
oh my god this is so bad yeah
the thing about like my 23 year old self
writing jokes it's the best sometimes
you find a gym we go damn that might be
up yeah you know some bitch you bailed
on we're like you're so you're like
you're you're it now you know I know how
to make this work right you can have a
you know we had some people you know
connect with that what I love about this
is comics aren't burning material right
so I feel like everyone can can do the
show but I mean I prefer to have
somebody that's you know got into 10,000
hours in yeah and so we can have like
you know those stories and it's just an
interesting way in mm-hmm I loved it I
loved it so much but my initial my point
is I was like I want to do this for you
too but then I was like maybe is it
maybe there's a televised play for this
mm-hm and three years later yeah I think
nothing is worth bringing to TV anymore
yeah she's not worth it anymore just you
you're getting deal with too many people
you don't need to deal with them yeah
they're not gonna have good things half
the people and this is generous mmm half
the people that you deal with that are
executives really don't give a fuck
about anything other than their mortgage
or their car or their career or getting
respect or office politics or they might
be working at Comedy Central they could
easily be working at the History Channel
or easily working at some other fucking
network here TV network Here I am trying
to create a platform for some of my
friends well like I feel like why don't
you have a following you know me yeah
yeah and I'm like if people just saw
your work ethic like how you write your
dozen people be like my like you know
I'd like you now I understand what this
is yeah and I felt that that's what was
missing from all these specials where
people just stand in a spot in a and
it's the same background I just changed
the name no you know no shade on that
but it's like very few people were
popping off that and so much so people
thought I had one of those like that's
how you'd never tell you my my my Comedy
Central story
no oh
okay so I'm a name check some people in
here but I literally I I but I'm not
doing it for it's all good like I
learned a lot from this experience so
George Carlin was performing at most of
each comedy magic club I go down to
watch George Carlin performance was this
would be his last special at the time
kimber Rickon ball who did was Rick mill
productions she comes over to me and she
goes why don't we have a half-hour on
you I don't know she gives me your card
she says give me 21 minutes and well you
know we'll make it happen or or she
alluded to that it would happen and so
I'm standing next to the guy who books
most beats and I go can I get 21 minutes
he's like no I could just give you seven
eight minutes says so I thought I had to
do like three seven minutes and pieces
together I went to the improv can I get
21 minutes I went to the Laugh Factory
20 minutes I got cat discontent no one
will give me 21 minutes and so I had to
go out of town I think I went to Chicago
or somewhere taped it got it back at the
time I'm writing on Everybody Hates
Chris they Becky and Michael rothenburg
Matt will manage Chris Rock at the time
and they would and they were also
producers on the show so they would come
down once a month and sit in the video
village and just you know yeah and so I
was politicking I go man if I can get
day Becky to contact Kimber Rick and
Paul maybe I can get with three yards
because I had no manager and three aunts
sexy you know management name and so Ali
Leroi the showrunner was also managed
about three yards so he was kind enough
he was just like he just did like this
is David yo man listen this motherfucker
and then just kept like so I was like
Dave mister Becky what's up man uh Kim a
wrecking ball gave me the card said if I
can give her 21 minutes
you know is probable I'll get a half
hour special I was wondering if I could
do that through you and he goes say no
more I rap Kimber Rickenbacker done so
at that time I was I booked a lot of
colleges so I'm I am on cloud nine yo
I'm about to get a half-hour special
I had a I did a car had a gig for
college that night so I kissed a red-eye
to Iowa all right
Ames Iowa before me in Ames Iowa get to
the hotel room the next morning phone
call on my cell phone
stay Becky I'm calling a girl is this
could be the start of us doing this a
lot you know long yeah oh and uh talk to
Kimber and uh she says she never heard
of you this is it I was like what I
thought also you hated me right no sorry
man good luck man all right talk to you
boo hung up and I was like what and it
never done to me to call Kimber and be
like hey like I was so floored by that
oh no yeah it was like a gut punch and
then check this out I saw about the
college I what I didn't have a college
gig the contract wasn't finalized so I
had to drag my dumb tail back to LA no
special no right and again I didn't ever
contacted her I didn't even know like
and that's why I said I could say her
name because I never did that part right
so like maybe I could have caught him in
hey oh my god so sorry I don't even
think that I went into I was having like
a pity party on the set of everybody's
Chris earnest Thomas tells me man don't
we don't Hollywood to give you
permission to be great and that's why I
shot my first special I took all my
college money shot did all that and said
just calling this woman like hey and so
that's how I ended up like shooting uh
the first special anonymous that is so
crazy she said she's never you but
meanwhile you had her card had it and
didn't use it that's why I was like it's
nothing it's not I don't feel like a
shade on her it's like I'm talking about
and and if it's any comments this and
then you'll call them like you know mean
like I'm just
sometimes it's part of that world of not
being all in and stand up and in that
writing world yeah that's - yeah that's
Ian - yeah Ian Edwards I've been saying
the same shit to him yeah I'm like stop
taking those jobs man you're too good
your dude yeah man yeah and Ian Edwards
and I we started out together man I've
known Ian for 20 27 28 years I've known
him forever
dude forever Ian and I used to Boston
comedy in New York City in the village
yeah yeah I'm an actor it landed a
dreadlock I remember I'd seen him on dev
town he's the yell yeah if we went vegan
he's the yell to calm down yeah yeah oh
yeah yeah and um I remember I saw him he
was the coolest in me out house like yo
man you a comedian I'm a comedian you
say what you're doing now nothing come
with me and he took me to like a general
meeting that he had in there and then we
went to two sets and I never forget I
never forget he if we perform he
performed in like a white room it was
crushing and I said to him hey man that
was amazing and it was great he goes I
didn't trust him laughing wait and trust
that he was so kind to me
that is like just showing that
generosity in a space where he didn't
have to yeah people right man he's a
classic human class yeah unlike you I
love that do to death I always take
pictures of him every time he falls
asleep because you know he's vegans
always tired so we're gonna playing
together and I don't mean the vegans out
there that eaten well right he does not
he just eats vegan but that means life
like all it is is a piece of bread a
piece of bread he'll eat some rice he's
not it doesn't get all those nutrients
he just doesn't you know he doesn't
exercise either but when everyone are
playing that motherfucker passed it out
so I take all these pictures of him
every time we go on the road together
smash sit next to go to me every time he
passes out with like we're on the runway
this to is not an OS then he got me he
got me recently he got me he caught it
it's just giant smile I've never seen
him smile that well you see the video of
it there's a video of it on Instagram
he got me and he's just got this huge
smile and I'm out cold
and he's sitting next to me and now
every time I fly with him I'm scared of
blacking out I'm scared of falling
asleep he's gonna get a video of you -
that's hilarious I woke up like he was
sleep I woke up next to me and he was
asleep and I was asleep I don't want to
film me while I was asleep before he
went to sleep five versus five yeah yeah
hello Joe yeah video of him hovering
over me while I'm out cold why I gotta
see it I never laughed so hard so I
landed and I checked my Instagram and I
saw that I just started fucking howling
man was so funny I wish we could we one
time I was giving him like smoothie
recipes because he was like asking about
that stuff and Ian is like incredibly
frugal it's so funny and I was like I
said what you wanna do is you wanna you
know you take strawberry banana he could
take a protein you could take you know
better that out of you want some green
stuff done he goes or I could just eat a
banana I mean but that's kind of like
defeating the purpose you wanna you know
I think he's doing smooths and stuff now
but back then I just remember I think
huh
like I just gave you this whole recipe I
could just eat a banana and it's cheaper
you know that was the same thing that's
what it is I think that was I don't know
but I was just protein powder and so
funny man ain't so yeah so I why I grew
up in in Prince George's County Maryland
right and a lot of comedians come from
the Chappelle I was a pair of a gracious
Appel story cuz we're the same age
so when I was 19 and I just started
Greenbelt comedy connection what I loved
about Chappelle I'm bringing this up
because it's Mark Twain Awards he gave a
shout out to a guy named Tony Tony woods
so Tony woods is also from the DC area
and so at 19 I'm in this comedy club
green.com is a black run Chappelle is on
stage and he's getting boo
and his dismount off getting booed is
something I've never seen before in my
life it was fantastic he's like fuck
y'all I'm gonna be famous it just walked
off and when he walked off I was like oh
my god they booed him like in my head
I'm like if they booed him I don't stand
a chance in comedy because like what
just happened when he walked by nobody
wanted to touch him because he had
that's yes uh and he sits down in in the
in the booth right here and I just can't
stop looking at him because I'm watching
you know they say the stages of grief
like I'm watching the stages of them and
I keep thinking why doesn't he leave and
he's sitting here and Tony woods goes on
stage next when twenty woods wow man god
man like just kind of a similar cadence
and Tony just destroys got a standing
ovation like night and day
and I'm just 19 just knew like absorbing
this just happen Tony walks off stage
that's a comic I'm just kind of like
eavesdropping like I think I'm five
seven but I'm fucking six five but I'm
just trying like look at what they're
gonna do next and they get up together
and they walk out I kind of just follow
him out thinking I don't know what's
gonna happen to me but hey kid wanna
hang with us I don't know yeah they get
in the same car and and it's like I
think it was a hatchback I'm not sure
and Tony drives off I'm like wow they
came together like that's that was all I
knew man of that relationship and so and
I and I knew that Tony I've been doing
it a lot longer and I knew that Dave
it's kind of like how when Kobe came
into the league and was talking like
Mike and then Kobe leaned into who Kohli
well yes speaking you know I speak
Italian I'm speaking Italian I speak
like this these are the things that
according to me and so you watched Dave
do that separate from Tony but what
love about what they did and this is why
he's great is he had he recognized Tony
in his greatest like comedic moment I
guess the most honest thing you can do
you know most people would be like I did
this all me but he was like you and what
he said about 20 could not have been
truer you know what I mean and so it's
just like touch my heart cuz I was I was
there at the epicenter when I was
watching babes
figure it out and it was probably like
and it was like and the material was
doing it just didn't connect with it was
a blue collar black crown I think he was
doing like the superhero stuff like man
uh you know one woman's magic laughs I
don't hear that magic lasso shit like it
was just it was just that it wasn't like
it wasn't funny cuz to me I'm a 19 year
old I thought that shit was hilarious so
that's the other thing I felt like am I
wrong like I'm laughing and you hear
bullshit and he uh
any-any and he came down you know and
then like a couple couple after like six
months later I saw him on HBO was only
it was like it's and I was like damn he
didn't let it stop him and so I learned
like all these lessons just sitting in
the back of a comedy club
Darnell Rollins who might come in and
interrupt us now he he too was from that
area and oh yeah man and I remember and
Darnell like you know you know people
talk about coming when he was on stage
people saying he spoke Korean he did I
was like a panelist is do and he was the
first comic I ever saw
commanding audience and I thought the
audience cuz I was again nineteen like I
had done comedy more than five times and
I hear that audience go do the aspirin
bit and he would do his bit about Aspen
that would be hilarious dude do the bike
bit and he would do this bit about not
get anybody and I thought I thought this
motherfucker had like like the on his
head like request you know what I mean
okay I was like how great is this dude
like they know his work and they're
requesting it but years later I didn't
know that those were like comics and I
know it might have been comics or it
might have been his but he he always had
like he was just so amazing
so I had all these references early on
it's like where you can take the art
form you know and how fearless it was
and then I went out to South Bend where
it was just completely different when I
was in college you know and but I but I
had all this like these mental downloads
of like of just how these different
styles that hadn't really touched like
the Midwest comedy scene it's so funny
when you're starting out too because you
try to figure out like what style is
gonna work yeah do I change do a shift
yeah like who will do all of that
everybody you have to and that's that's
the guiness bringing it back to what
notebooks is like I want to know what
your what's your particular thing was I
don't know what mine was but all of ours
is different yeah but what we all play
the same it's like we play the same
sport but we all play at different ways
and I love that shit
so yeah it's um it's ironic that you
bought that that show up because I was
like yeah you should bring it up yeah I
was so honored that you said you would
do it oh shit that's latest yeah the
legal pad action so oh it's just amazing
that I kept but yeah we do you can
taxable yes and I'm sure there was
certain several times when you were
urged to throw them away
yeah my wife was trying to throw them
well no yeah that's what gave me the
idea well mine was trying to toss my oh
no fucking way
those are gonna be worth something
someday yeah but also when I was going
through them was always thinking like
maybe one day I'll find a gem is a gem
in here just to premise yes a weird
premise it's in there anyway it is so
hard to get that discipline like to
literally go through it mm-hmm you know
what I mean how do you write do you sit
in front of a computer and write you
write in front of a notary question each
have good ideas and you just good idea
so what I do you know what I started
doing and I'm gonna do a podcast - it's
gonna be called in context with Owen
Smith cuz what I started doing is I
started reading a newspaper more and if
it whenever I read the newspaper my
brain fucking explodes with a whole
bunch of just idea newspaper yeah why
newspaper I like I like the physical
like holding it but now I but now I
just I'm getting myself to doing the
online stuff just because it's it's just
more practical because every time I go
to get the paper like it's not I always
feel so funny when I'm holding it but
now like what is this yes but I like
because you can see the words and you
can see like they use specific word
choice and my brain just starts going to
him that's why but my act isn't that
right my act is more personal but just
Chris Rock's told me something a long
time ago he said I don't suffer from
what is it when you when you can't think
of anything writer's block yeah I don't
suffer from writer's block
I suffer from readers block oh oh shit
and he read he and in DL Hughley told me
a long time ago if you read the
newspaper every day that's equivalent to
having a master's yeah what does GD
logic series researches me that I was a
hilarious when I was like like that stay
with me so I was like so what always
trying to like read a Holmes bit of what
paper to the New York Post you're gonna
go back you gotta go back yeah that's it
you just slide back to New York every
time I read it is shitting on people's
fantastic it's like it's not a tablet
but it is but they talk shit and it's
funny it's funny it's near poster I grab
that every time I'm back in this
punished shit man
yeah it was uh so so I've always tried
to but you know I should have come to me
in my sleep
conversations and for me is about
finding what is the right I don't feel
like this I feel like where's the best
place for this joke to live you know I
mean it's just a stand-up joke could I
get more traction out of this if it's a
sketch you know what I mean
and then if it is a sketch how can i
still make it sing as a stand-up joke
you know and what's fun for me is if I
do something to not revisit it and I can
do it like a lot cleaner and clearer and
it starts then I get excited cuz then i
can play cuz that's the other thing
sometimes when you write you forget to
play mm-hmm I remember like I think I
saw Bill Maher or somebody like that
performing he he he you know he kind of
just stands there and so I saw him come
off stage one time and he was like man I
fucking audience you know sucked and and
I was thinking in my head like I
wouldn't say to him but I mean you just
forgot to play like you yo-yo all your
shit was fired but it was if not having
fun yeah sometimes you know and so when
I said watch his show when I could see
he's playing it's like ah yeah and so
you forget that you forget that I mean
shit he's up to deadlines he's got doing
that stuff but when I saw him live that
day I go oh he was he was trying to
figure it out still so he didn't have
the little songs all those little things
and so sometimes I could be too hard on
myself trying to get it like technically
technically right and when I just figure
the play this shit is so fun you know
what I mean yeah creating moments and
you could get all of that but for me I'm
always trying to I'm always I don't know
man I'll hear shit I'll see shit I'm
like what is that like like so like
right now I was Black History Month all
this stuff about Mall of the King but my
head went to you know this to the FBI
bugged like they listened to all of his
stuff and so I'm now I'm thinking about
the guys listening the MLK light
you couldn't all be civil rights like
they I wonder if he turned any of them
you know listening like it's got a good
point you know would it be like so
that's how you make potato salad you
know hey like just listening or whatever
how many people you think were assigned
to listen I'm fascinated with it and
like I wondered like a weird
relationship we're relationship and
you're getting like you're getting a
peek into the word of somebody you're
told is this one thing and what if you
you know you hear saying you just don't
agree like I'm fascinated with stuff
like that so I try to like yeah I've is
if you can make that funny
sure then that's where great pits come
from when they come from that
uncertainty like okay where is it
we're noticed something in that yeah
there is something in some FBI some
square FBI did yeah listening to Martin
Luther King yeah yeah there's a there's
like there's a thing that he could say
yeah that would turn him yeah so I'm I
played with stuff like that so sometimes
one of the one of my favorite comedians
I have a whole bunch but comedians that
always get to me or people that I didn't
know comedy could do that so I remember
when I heard Dick Gregory on one it's
now time called Dick Gregory on hmm and
he was the first black millionaire to do
stand-up and he has a great book he has
a book called nigger but his best book I
won't say best well my favorite book of
his is called the shadow that scares me
and it's really him like giving
solutions to all of these like problems
that that are you know but that were in
the narrative at that time about black
folks and I just I was amazed at his
writing and I was blown away by his
stand-up some of the social commentary
with me right and I was like oh man I
want to do some of that so I I used to
that was back in my 30s and I was trying
to solve the race problem you know me
fucking with that no more hi that's out
my system like but I used to because
because I was still in the orbit of the
bring the pain like oh I got a half my
and I and it just I was like it's not
really changing the world man is making
some points but I kind of like backed
away because I used to do this bitch
about being at a rap concert Busta
Rhymes and all white folks and I'm there
and he goes all my real niggas make some
noise everybody made noise me like the
two of the black
[Laughter]
similary allowed it but can you cheer
right so then I go well maybe maybe they
didn't hear him but in hip-hop you say
everything twice again like I said all
my lil nigga Rachel Zoe and so I was
like man not only people niggas now
who's now saying I was doing this shit
like in Milwaukie
I'll go and not only can we call a migit
they paying $80 for the privilege to be
called $80 a ticket and I'll go white
folks tonight I call you nigger for 10
$10 nigga sale nigga clearance cash only
because I know how you niggas are right
so proud of this bit at the end of the
show I'm selling my dumb DVDs you know
cinema merged and inevitably a white
person will always come up to me give me
$20 and call me Nick so late twenties
early thirties you you know you you know
you know you're the angry commie like
what the fuck you know and then now I'm
gonna load I go man I'd be funny if I
cuz I kept the money you know like I
didn't you know for me just living in
our space man I was just like nah after
I tried it and I was getting that kind
of response I just was a thing - were
you when you're a comic like you want to
be respected so you want to come up with
a bit that like it transcends comedy
yeah you want it you want everybody to
go wild on some real shit yeah you know
it's I think there's a danger in that
and that you can kind of trick yourself
you can like I had some dumb bit so I
did that well I was just trying to get
people to think that I was really good
rather than it just be
good yeah being good this from a real
person it's so much of it I had this
conversation with Robert Downey jr.
about acting and something I said to him
and he said exactly I said isn't a lot
of it's just about getting out of your
own way because that's what a lot of it
is a comedy and I think it's with acting
I think it's probably the music I think
it's probably with everything I think
he's got to get out of your own way cuz
the way you look at yourself the way you
want people to look at you you know you
can hold you back how many conversations
have you ever had with a comic and they
talk about how they want like the
respect of the industry they want the
people to look at them these fucking
people don't respect me and it's like
god damn do you hear yourself yeah
you're wasting all this mental fuel on
this nonsense my mother-in-law is the
best saying my wife says it all the time
she goes if you worry about yourself you
have a busy busy time if you worry about
you you have a busy busy time and you
know because when you hear people going
on I want damn they don't see that hey
man just worry about you all the states
you have to do yeah this on that you'll
be busy enough and nothing could be you
know truer than that when I hear you
know comics do that
you know comics come up with a lot of
excuses
hopefully my things aren't going on my
favorite one yes
they don't want white men they don't
want white straight men I'm like what in
the fuck are you I'm heard nothing about
I've heard that and they said that to me
that is so fucking crazy like okay well
it's literally 90% of all comedians I'm
not trying here's one thing that is true
yeah there are certain networks and
certain booths that are trying to get
people that are not white men that's
true however there's still a fucking
shitload that are getting specials yes
yes the idea that that's somehow in that
and really pushing the the you know it
just lacks so much self-awareness to say
that there's a problem being a white man
it's you say when they say it to me you
understand I'll be lying
what do I do with this so it's so not
self-aware what no one guy came to me
one time at the economy store and he was
complaining about not being a beguiling
staff and as I paid regular yeah but he
wanted to be a writer yes writer and but
now and I it came out that he sold shows
in the saga so you have a quote and I go
you mind me something but sure what's
your quote he tell me you tell me his
quote I go do you know what a staff
writer makes I know you're not getting
hired because you have a quote and you
know mean like no one's ever work with
you and I really need to know explain
what that means for people oh so so um
when you sew everything when you sell a
television show they give you a contract
of terms in case the television show
goes and they agree to pay you them an
amount per episode of the show of the
show that you sold whether it's a
variety TV show whether it's unscripted
whatever all those terms are agreed in
advance and that is what's called your
quote and that quote is specific to the
studio you you did the deal with because
but that quote can travel to another
studio so if you go someplace else they
may give you the bare minimum offer and
you know I I have a quote right if you
are a staff writer and so and typically
that quote is is is it is a decent
amount right per episode so typically if
you're a staff writer I think you get
paid I'm gonna say it's less than six
thousand dollars a week is how they the
math would work out and so you have this
thing where you have this quote that's
probably thirty thousand dollars in
episode I don't know what that would
track a week because they amortize it
over however long your state it's work
and as a staff writer you're getting
paid like this amount so no showrunner
in their right mind is gonna just ask
you to take a pay cut right there from
your quote
your people won't allow them to do that
and no showrunner is gonna hire you at
that hot quote if you've never been in
the room before like I'm not gonna pay
you $30,000 an episode to learn you know
what I mean so it's a lot of math missed
in you're in this this complaint
complaint that you have built for
yourself yeah which is fine I just don't
want to hear it because I know the math
so it's like I hope I did a good job no
sense but it's like it's like yeah man
you succeeded at selling several shows
so that's like the lane you're in unless
you come in and go listen I'll take a
pay cut I want to learn I'm trying to
get if that's really what you want to do
when I told them that it it was like I
don't know you ever tell somebody like a
different solution in the face they make
is I wish you know you take producing
sleep I wish I got a thing like that
face back when the light bulb goes on
yeah yeah yeah oh that's what's wrong
what the difference is I think between
successful people and people who are
moderately successful is they're open to
that right now you just told me put note
books on on YouTube guess what it's
gonna be it's gonna be a fucking you
know saying I'm going to do it like I'm
not gonna be like I don't know you know
you you actually connected what I've
been thinking like the whole time it's
almost like you just gave me that extra
like incentive to yeah man you doing
isn't it so I checked in with him no he
didn't you know didn't do the thing and
and so I almost think like he he needs
to feel that he's being you know tellest
yeah yeah stacked against so if fuels is
oh yeah yeah okay I feel like he's being
my lines yeah sure thing this revenant
yeah yeah yes that fucking Hollywood
world of this incredible it's a gross
world man dude the fact that you live
here and figured out how to succeed
outside of it is a lot of ways but I'm
kind of not oh my god yeah go to
meetings or do you see people come here
what
there's no meetings no meetings I say no
to everything I say no to every
interview I say no to every meeting I
say no to everything I'm gonna say yes
to no book he did no books yeah but I
said yes to that anything my friends do
that's not interested I don't want any
meeting they don't want to do anything
more than what I'm already doing did you
have this vision I was wrong to ask you
because I just had an audition today you
know what to ask you did you ever go for
auditions yes did you did it become a
thing that you set out to be great at or
was it always something that you just
were like I'm gonna see what this takes
me I'll give you the craziest story
about auditions ever as far as success
stories I auditioned for two shows ever
I got both of them when she shows every
audition for audition for a show called
hardball that was on Fox it was a
terrible baseball show I got it I
started off really good but the network
fucked it up and then I auditioned for
News Radio and I got that so two shows
in a row did you home what we do it
though did you did we have to go do the
first audition callback test and all
that all that yeah okay the email who
else was uh Newsradio I remember seenu's
reading I was 26 so that was only like
four years from when I was fighting
right so I had a different feeling of
fear and anxiety then a lot of people
did and I was in the waiting room I
didn't that there was an open call and
the open call wasn't a noble call but it
was like a cattle call there was like 50
fucking dudes waiting to get in there
and you would read but it was
interesting it wasn't funny I was like
what is this but they did it on purpose
they wanted to cut out all the corn
balls so he gave you lines and you had
to play it straight
mmm like the play it was like me trying
to think I was a handyman at this radio
station so I had to figure something out
and I was like I don't know what's going
on with it and they're like but you're
supposed to fix it but yeah but I can't
fix it so I don't know what to do like
that kind of thing like there was no
there was no punch line I told my
manager I was like I don't know I go the
pilot was really funny because I saw the
pilot and there was another guy on the
pilot Ray Romano was actually the
original guy on the pilot and they fired
him replaced him with another guy then
they fired that guy and then they had a
call to see who the next guy would be
and then I went in to read for it
and then the first like the first scrip
was not it was just straight it was
weird
so I said I don't know what to do with
it I said I'm just gonna do it straight
and so then I got a call back and then I
got new sides and the new sides were
hilarious
and then I realized like oh they're
trying to cut out the corn balls yeah
they got a bunch of wacky you know
fucking real obvious sitcom guys so I
went in for the second call and it was
me and three of the dudes and they
looked like they were about to get
shipped off to Vietnam there were white
pale sweaty everyone was nervous and I
just I remember looked at them and go oh
I got this and I sat down and I plot my
feet up on the couch and I just I just
kept kicked back and relaxed I relaxed I
felt good I was like nervous you fucks
are yes are you guys gonna go in there
and choke yes I just went in there and
did it and but also the thing for me is
I never wanted to be an actor I just did
it for the money
yeah like when when I got an audition
for hardball it was because Disney gave
me a bunch of money for a development
deal because I did stand-up on MTV so I
did the MTV half-hour comedy hour and
then MTV they offered me the most
ridiculous deal ever it was like 500
bucks to do a pilot and then if if they
decide to do it even if they decide to
shoot it and never film it they have you
locked up exclusively for two years - it
was so ridiculous it was because they
had made celebrities with like Denis
Leary like Denis Leary become famous
from MTV and then he left
so they're like you know we're gonna
keep people here now you know we're
gonna if we make someone a star we're
gonna keep them and so they they offered
the most ridiculously lowball deal of
all time so I said no to that we said no
to that and then my manager sent my tape
out and said hey this guy is about the
sign this deal with you know someone you
know if you guys are interested do it
now I think he said might have said MTV
so then we got all these offers and so I
don't know I couldn't answer my phone
they told me don't answer my phone just
go to the pool hall stop stop and
refocus people call me at home and this
is this is back in the day I didn't have
a cell phone
yeah so then two weeks later I'm in
Hollywood having meetings and then a
month later in Boston yeah I was in New
York okay then a month later I'm living
there
a month later Bri I'm out in
Hollywood with jim breuer jim breuer was
on the show with me in the pilot he was
the opposing mascot he was hilarious so
me and Jim were buddies from back in the
day so we're all hanging out and then
you know that show got picked up I did
like six episodes of that show it got
canceled I'm just hanging out the store
every night and then I'm ready to go
back home to New York but I had already
signed a lease so I was fucking
apartment for a year and I couldn't get
out of it so I'm like god damn and then
I got a development deal with them with
NBC based on The Hardball Show and so
they said hey before we talk to you
about doing your own show we'd like you
to look at this pilot and see if you'd
be interested in it and it's Dave Foley
and Phil Hartman and Andy dick and I'm
like holy shit I'm like really I'm like
yeah yeah I'm interested in this and
then I came in and read for the next
thing you know I had it and I've seen oh
I'm on TV
like I've been doing acting for like a
couple of months and I'm sitting at a
table next to Phil Hartman I'm like this
is crazy like this is fucking crazy and
all these different people in that we're
on the show it was fascinating man it's
fascinating cuz I it's not something I
ever wanted I was not interested in it
at all but all sudden it was happening I
was like huh but that's part of probably
why I was able to do it because it
wasn't like this dream that was you Hara
lysing me with anticipation and anxiety
when I walked in that second audition I
saw those dudes sweat and I was like
clicking you nervous fucks it brought me
back to fighting because fighting I used
to love seeing how nervous people were
before fights and I would take naps I
would lay down on the ground like in the
in the bleachers because just to let
everybody know I'm just gonna go because
it was you playing psychological games
like when I would knock guys out or walk
away like it was normal like even though
I was freaked out dudes unconscious I'll
just walk around like that's what I do
dude I do that shit every day
I'm gonna do it to you too really and so
when I was in that that room getting
ready to go in and read I have the same
feeling oh you guys are nervous
like this like oh I got that guy well so
I was the only comic yeah those guys
weren't comic didn't weren't these two
performing live and all that that's a
giant I love that like when I would
audition and like a really good-looking
guy will walk in I'm like no you ain't
funny but you're seriously I would have
no fear land whatever you know is a
comedy good luck
no fear you know it's too hard to be
good-looking and funny come on man you
can be funny to me let's do it the
reason I did Fear Factor because I
didn't want to work with actors anymore
man that came up I was like cuz I had
auditioned for like one or two sitcoms I
didn't get after Fear Factor but it was
also was a thing was like man I need to
make some money like I'm not making as
much money doing stand-up and I was used
to making TV money and I had development
deals and they didn't go in an audition
for a couple shows and that didn't
happen and then I guess it was like two
years because fear factor yeah 2000-2001
fear factor was 2001 and Newsradio ended
in 99 and it was a it was an opportunity
to do some one no actors I was like fuck
yeah I'm in because even the audition
process is even weird or you're dealing
with all these mind games that people
are playing and the in the waiting room
it's like you people are so strange
they're the strangest people because
their life is centered around getting
people to like them for auditions right
so they're always they're always trying
to pretend they're exactly what these
casting people want their political
beliefs the way they talk the way they
act
there's nothing weirder than being
around unsuccessful actors ones that are
trying to make it like once they're
successful like if you talking to like
Robert Downey jr. he's a regular dude
man yeah he's a regular dude but he's
famous as fuck and super successful you
know there's a lot of those guys like
that yeah you know we're not equate that
to when I first moved down here before
before you get on a lot right and you're
competing with everyone
then that's when you hear people in
Hollywood a shady people are fooled you
can't trust because we all were
basically unemployed you know right
competing for the same yeah man I'm on
me telling me none of us got shot like
we all talking right but once I got
might like my first gig I made a
different character of people Oh cuz
they work it and so it is something
about it is something about people who
figured out you know how to make a
living on that they have a you know a
lot more you know integrity and a little
more credible in an honest and you got
me you're a real dude but yeah when you
first get here and you're thrown in that
line everybody's it's like struggling it
took me back to like basketball AAU
where like I loved playing I wanted to
be a Globetrotter like I know I do like
all the tricks and all that stuff I love
having fun and when you start getting
when I started looking at colleges and
getting recruited I always is becoming a
business hmm
and I wasn't ready for that mm-hmm and I
literally liked having fun like playing
basketball and I would be playing
it's some tournaments with some kids and
I'm like to him you know you got a kid
oh shit like you playing for your family
you know I mean like and I'm gonna be
like good time having a good time and it
was serious for them and so you know
just like so when I when I came out here
I fell into the commercial world for I
started booking commercials a lot and I
still I still do if I go out my wife was
like you should go back out for
commercials again because I had the same
mindset where alright man
but that's a comic I get it I get the
joke I know how to like you know nail it
I've booked pilots but then I like
because I write to I could see like all
the rewriting happening on set and I
could tell if it's gonna go on that bye
because they always lately let me trying
to cute and everything up and I go I get
it but in the twelfth hour when you guys
are deciding what you know the cute
shows not gonna make it so
what do you mean by cute and everything
up we're we're like so I was before he
walked in I was like did you watch curb
last last night I did a funny thing
about a handicapped placard right and so
and it just spoke to everybody wants one
of those things it's a man you know and
they did a montage of all the stitch you
would do if you had a handicapped
placard that might that might be in the
part of the person you'd be you'd be
howling and then as you're shooting it
when the handicapped thing is coming off
a little mean what if we make it uh you
know I mean and then like they button it
up to it it's not as gratifying because
you're laughing yet but just the primal
nature of yeah I mean I would do the
same shit I'm rocking with this noted an
acute knit up and then worried about the
repercussions yeah they take the edge
off yes and then so when you watch it
back you go we got this show we got this
show yeah I don't really know anybody in
this show this guy's a known face
they're both you put the known face out
you know and but again I am literally
onto your quarterback again it could be
a series of things like you know but
it's rare that someone does it right
that's what's interesting with new shows
it's not like there's a lot of people
that are doing it right and there's a
lot of great new shows no what do you
think is the next thing though I think
first of all streaming services have
changed the whole game
things like stranger things yes things
like those kind of shows now there's a
new show on HBO that I'm addicted to
called The Outsider
is that good fuck yeah yeah it's fucking
good it's very good it's terrifying
I was very it grabs me like because I
watched curb and it obviously like the
last two minutes like it's the last two
minutes I see I'm like yeah it's Jason
Bateman Jason Bateman knows his shit
because Ozark is amazing those kind of
shows they're so off the charts in terms
of like what you could get away with on
network television right now where
television is just so hampered they're
so confined they have shackles they just
can't do anything wild anything anything
outside the norm you can't take any
chance I mean this on spoiler alert on
the outsider you see a dead kid like 40
seconds into the first episode yeah you
cannot not just
but malt I mean it's horrible I mean
it's it says it's a stunning visual and
if you can't handle that it's only you
know it's not like something you see a
lot right throughout the whole show but
it's enough to fuck you up but they'll
let you know okay this is not CBS right
this is chaos
like this is realistic a horror show is
you're gonna get it's interesting when I
watch yeah it's like everything
everything is like a different palette
right yeah like if you own if a network
show is like clicking I can get our
people would get you know fall in love
with that the romance at that is good
yeah but the but the process the
creative process coming from a stand-up
brain you know I'm a stand-up first it's
it is it's very collaborative and it is
like you say it's collaborative with a
lot of people who at certain stages
you're like yeah you know yeah but but
then you saw because I'm just going
through it so I was trying I'm being
like very diplomatic and I go okay well
what why why do you have this job but
and it's also like how do we talk to one
another because I know what I'm thinking
like what is so I'm using it as it and I
think cuz I mean I'm a parent now so I'm
just like when I swim I you know I'm in
this space of just trying to figure out
yeah cuz 26 year old me but I'm like man
what the fuck are you talking about you
know or just feeling like this is stupid
this but I'm in this space right now
well I'm like okay I know I'm like how
you talking to me right now I don't even
understand it but I need to I think I
need to try to figure it out mm-hmm and
you know it's interesting
yeah working with people can be
rewarding mm-hmm you you definitely
learn about communication yeah the
problem is it's never as good as your
standup no no you know yeah that's real
you the problem is you are already a
great stand I know and it's like sonic
creative yeah over here this that's that
bit but it's the track
of the business the business pulls you
in the business offers you money the
business offers you security they don't
make money off your standup in this town
no no unless it's a fucking booking
agency they don't make shit off of it
right the business offers you this
stability you're gonna go to CBS Radford
you're gonna pull in every day hi I'm
Owen Smith I'm working on the blah blah
blah you go in there you got your
parking spot whoa I did it man I did it
for years and years and years you know I
did it for five years on Newsradio yeah
it's attractive but that's what I love
about you you do you like you did it all
yeah so it's like it's done both things
yeah I've done well I've done I did two
shows that went to syndication yeah I
did news radio that went to syndication
and then I did Fear Factor that did
syndication and I get offers all the
time to do stuff on TV I don't wanna
have anything to do with it how did you
and Stephen a what I meant to ask you
that both talking about boxing I was
like it wasn't amazing MMA that was
amazing thing to watch
he's a generalist yes you know and you
were very specific and that's
but-but-but
why was that together yeah because they
were trying to he's a very popular guy
okay and you know there was a big event
Conor McGregor's yeah cowboy Cerrone and
then ESPN obviously it's on ESPN yeah
okay so when I just saw a clip on
YouTube and I go yeah yeah and it was
clearly that I felt like I was watching
and open my headliner yeah both they
have a take on the topic it's not he
does not have it's not a good place like
you if you're coming from you're coming
at martial arts especially MMA you have
to have a deep understanding of the
sport you can't just have a peripheral
knowledge and communicate with someone
like me I've been doing this a long time
that's a long time I've been working for
the UFC since 1997 and I've been
involved in martial arts since I was 14
15 years old so it's this is not the
casual to me and I'm balls deep in it
and I'm also very very respectful very
respectful to the fighters very very
understanding of what's going on and I
look at it in a very comprehensive way
his whole thing is making controversy
you know his whole thing is he's a great
shit talker and he's great at shitting
on people he's great at mocking people's
performances he's just a powerful
communicator and an entertainer the
problem is you carry that over to mmm a
man those fans are not having them right
that's what yeah he turned on him like
wolves yeah yeah I didn't say anything
mean man I didn't say it's some way way
way meaner shit that's why I was
watching yeah I don't have anything
against that guy I think he's
entertaining but it's uh it's just you
can't say cowboy quit he got his face
smashed in you got a head kicked I mean
just just doesn't understand what went
down you can't say Connor didn't show
you anything he just ran right through a
top welterweight in 40 seconds he's a
beast it's like I understand what he's
trying to do he's trying to apply the
same sort of way of talking about sports
that he talks about maybe if it's a
basketball game or maybe it's something
else he's trying to apply that to MMA
it's a different thing it's a different
thing
there's no knock down so you get knocked
down the guy gets on top of you and
punches your fucking face in you know
I'm saying it's not like boxing this
it's so it is as raw as a sport ever
gets you don't even wearing shoes you
know you get your fingers are exposed
you got pads on your knuckles you're
allowed to elbow someone in the eyeball
you're allowed to kick them in the
fucking face with your shin your shin
bone slamming into someone's nose that
happens all the time that's normal
that's a normal day at the office it's a
crazy sport man yeah so for that sport
you have to be super respectful and
appreciative of what's going on because
those guys are putting their health on
the line in a big big big within those
girls to those girls fuck each other up
man it's rough to watch that was one of
the hardest thing for me to get over
watching girls get fucked up cuz you
don't think about that right I mean I
saw that in the talk window days I
definitely saw girls get kod
but it wasn't his it wasn't as normal
fuckin in MMA like you see girls get
just
- man you see him get smashed like girls
that fight Amanda Nunez she just beats
the flock out of them yeah whoa man it's
a crazy sport man man but I don't have
anything against even though that's not
why I bought it up I was just on my TV
that's what happened like yeah the
interesting ideas that come from a
different place what if we take Joe and
put in that world I don't want to be
involved in that world
if the SPI wanted to give me a job like
nope not interested I don't want to have
anything to do with that this is what
like we did this fight companion podcast
on Saturday night Saturday during the
day fight the fights were from New
Zealand the UFC fights before the tides
of fury but yeah Deontay Wilder fight
and we were talking about it and my
friend Eddie was like how come they
don't do something like this on TV I'm
like they couldn't there's no way we're
drinking we have whiskey we're smoking
weed we're talking crazy shit you know
Brendan Schaub every girl in the live
this bitch's ass and this and that
everyone's talking crazy
they're talking like guys normally talk
we're sitting around but we're doing it
over the Internet yeah but it gets
millions of views so it's one of those
things where like if a network had a
show like that they'd be like this is
this is a hit it's a giant hit for a
sports show that's why for a sports show
to get way more views than the actual
show it's watching so it's a fight
companion we're watching the fights and
we're talking about the fights but that
gets more than twice as many views as
the actual fights itself which is kind
of crazy that's very great but the only
way that happens is if no executive none
of those half in half out people we're
talking about before that it really
could work at the Discovery Channel or
the History Channel they're trying to
cute and things I'm trying to take the
edge off look guys we're gonna cut that
second one when you're talking about
those girls asses it's just kind of
disrespectful and you know I've got kids
my own and I've got daughters like get
the fuck out of here like you know if we
had a producer in here they're like some
some networks close in right there oh my
god giving us notes at the end of every
show you know I couldn't do it yeah when
I worked on a late-night talk shows the
hoenn aired of a freedom of speech was
in the air and that's whenever we would
write something it all had to be legally
approved I guess the first time I saw
that Oh a lawyer anybody like you guys
can't say you know
alright man sorry you know we'd figured
out you know yeah anyways and then and
then out you'd go out in the world and
people like freedom of speech oh man
this shit is all legally approved man
what you're seeing in this space is it's
not like you say like but but when you
guys could just say whatever you want is
to narrow it down there's few voices as
possible to have control like this this
is you and me and and Jamie's hanging
out this is a three-man crew that
reaches millions and millions of people
that's insane
like that's insane that's never happened
before but that's the only reason why it
works yeah because you don't have any my
sensibilities are all fucked up they're
not normal like what I think is okay
it's in terms of drugs and violence and
all the different things that I enjoy
yes it's I mean I'm a hunter I've I bow
hunt animals you know yeah that's what I
eat I ever smoked pot all the time you
know I I'm always swearing like I don't
believe in any of these things I I you
know I just think that when you're when
you're putting together a show there's
no way you would ever let a person like
me be responsible for the the the job of
promoting something to push out like
being the captain of a show well you got
all these executives and their jobs are
on the line and you're gonna have some
loose cannon like me who's a wild
stand-up comic everything I've done has
been wildly OH from the beginning from
fighting to getting the stand-up from
all it's wild it's wild stuff you know
that's what I like I like when it's
chaos that's what I enjoy yeah but
there's no way you could ever have a
network approved something like this
there's no way the language saying cunt
saying whatever the fuck you want to say
talking about things in an honest way
talking about what's bullshit about life
about politics about the the state of
the way human beings communicate with
each other yeah you got to boil it down
just a couple of people when you boil it
down especially guys like you and me who
are comics who could talk real about
stuff who aren't scared of saying their
flaws aren't scared of saying where they
fucked up and how you know it's those
some of my favorite conversations and
when you talk about this this shit you
fucked up when you were young
dumb it's fun people hide from that
stuff yeah they don't like it they don't
like to feel like they're inadequate or
or their wish they can feel like they
were always good like that's all
nonsense yeah this kind of thing
were you doing a podcast this is I think
this is the future of all those talk
shows those talk shows are dwindling
they are like they're like flowers in
the desert man they're not getting
enough water there's no one watching if
you look at the numbers like Conan's
show it's horrible and you know he's a
legend yeah and all these guys are
legends but those no one's watching that
shit anymore because you could watch
this or any other podcasters something
like 900,000 of them oh wow and you
could watch them or listening to them
anytime you want yeah you could stop it
when you have to take a shit you can
come back you know you don't have to
wait for it to come on you know none of
that nonsense yeah you listen in your
car you could watch it in on your
computer though I think this is and
people are being real the this is a
different world now with the internet
there's too much real information for
you to get spoon-fed nonsense on
television you know let those like when
I watch those CBS shows like those crime
shows I'm like oh people are watching
this right old people and people that
like have chemicals at work and they
come home drunk you know I mean like
there's something about it something in
the air oh we just want to sit and have
something mindless spoon-fed to them
exist oh that's those Network shows
that's what keeps those things alive
yeah those things are so watered down so
nonsense is it not real life I wanted to
come I wanted to tell you I got I got
beef of Malcolm Gladwell really you
spoke to him yeah need to connect us
what do you have to be for them about I
love him right okay doesn't you just
listen to his stuff all the time
and then he did something with some guy
I think he was a little tipsy but he was
talking about how he could do stand-up
doing stand-up was easy
he really said that anybody said it I
wanted to send you the clip oh and I
just want to be like Malcolm come on
Pham he said yeah or something I have to
find it he was like doing stand-up is
nothing but any intellectualizing it's a
certain set of thing in the room people
drinking and he tried to like him and I
want him to feel it like I want him
and so that's like a guy watches the
fight and thinks out fuck yes and what
he said and it's like like I couldn't
watch him anymore I was like so angry
yeah and and now I watched a few clips
of him here like man I miss Malcolm but
uh he needs to know you can't be if he
really said that he just know might just
not understand what it is I want him to
I want him to like I want to take him to
a black room or in the grass they like
the realism you know I mean do you think
it just see him bomb just feel it cuz
you just crackle feel the heat come on
it yeah yeah yes yeah it's like to me I
was like man you wrote a book about
10,000 hours and you sitting there going
I can do this come on man don't do that
it seems like but this is what I've been
saying about staying it for a while is
that if you talk to someone
yeah they a lot of people have been
funny in their life most people said
something funny where everyone can talk
yeah right so all you're doing up there
is talking and you say something funny
it seems like I can do it yeah but did
you do it yeah but if you're talking and
saying something funny the people who
know you and love you know your quirks
and your tics and all that's your front
of strangers right who may or may not be
in that audience that's the difference
between don't know if you've ever seen
this but there's a lot of people that
are maybe podcasters or they do other
things and then they're doing stand-up
occasionally oh yes they're crowd yes
and they think they're doing good
stand-up but then they'll go on in the
store and it'll get sandwiched into a
lineup in the o.r of murderers and then
it's ugly it gets ugly cos asks reality
sets in because if they're all there to
see you and they're all your fans and
they paid money hear you talk they just
want to see you hey there's the guy from
the show yes
yeah and they probably never been in the
comedy club
so if Malcolm is doing these speeches
and he's doing these speeches in front
of these large audiences he's probably
said some funny things so it probably
thinks that he can do stand-up the funny
guy but when he got I was like ah man I
need I need I need I need to find do
need to talk to its it's not one it's I
don't think people understand what it is
it's a weird it's a very weird art form
because I don't I think it's only truly
appreciated by people have done it like
truly appreciated in terms of what's
actually happening yeah and it took me
years to realize that what was going on
when you're killing it's a sort of a
form of hypnosis there's at the mind the
audience is letting you into their mind
and they're letting you think for them
that's why when you have clunky shit or
you blow yourself up or you you have a
distorted perception of yourself or you
have too many words it's like annoying
it's frustrating it's hard for people to
absorb you lose some of that grip that
you have on them but when someone has an
economy of words and they lock in and
they're jokes are tight and then they
keep going and going you're lost you're
lost in their thoughts you just let
those people carry I love it I love my
favorite things to sit in the audience
and loves someone killing I just go
along with them like it's so fun it's so
fun but to break that down to just
sentences and words and you say this you
say that it's not that there's so much
more to it so many elements that's why I
love watching like oh you know what I
wish I wish there was a stand-up show
you know you know how like I love now
that some of these ex NBA players are on
ESPN because now they're speaking about
the game from being players yeah so you
have people who clearly have never
played right so very uh you know very
learn it you know pundits and that ain't
it man never do this is this this this
this this that team gonna lose and then
if he moves I love their shit and I wish
I wish there was a show like that for
stand-up Suika like I watch a stand-up
special we would be real it would be
hard I know because my boss is hating
but it's not dogshit special no no no
and I know this song though she'd never
happen and you watch them and you'd have
to break it down you def ago this is
nonsense nonsense right yeah but I but I
enjoy figuring out that puzzle like yeah
like we couldn't do it publicly no
oh fuck you know what I've been doing
you know my favorite people to do this
with me and Eddie pepper sit in the back
of the room when you see bullshit common
he's fun to watch sometimes you're so
fun but it but but what I'm saying like
what you know which drunk I'm fascinated
by that thing where we're truth tellers
we're honest we spend our whole lives
trying to figure out what our truth is
but we can't speak truth about certain
things still yeah because if there's an
optics is bad thing is bad optics good
what isn't but it's like my intention is
to help it
you know mean like my intention is not
that's why I said I don't I don't like
I'm not walking around when this guy
sucks I love that you say it's dog shit
but I just feel like what you should
have you should have taken a year you
know me yeah and this is a good start
but he's ready yes in fighting oh yeah
they're bad at fighting oh there's
people that are terrible I don't know
Mike and then they you know they try to
fight professionally and they get
crushed yeah and then these people that
are really good at it and you watch them
and you go oh I see what is what's
what's separating the creativity the
aggression the the understanding the
technical aspects of it that's the same
with stand up there's people at a
mediocre at music is people terrible at
poetry there's people that are just they
just did they you know maybe they'd
still on their early notebooks you know
maybe it's just a journey and they just
haven't gotten to the point yet but
there's also a thing where you were
talking about bits that you would do
where you tried to get people to think
about you a certain way I see a lot of
that today you see a lot of this weird
woke comedy oh yeah well it's like
they're just they're setting out to try
to establish this like social justice
premise rather than be for money but
it's the only way think it's the same
mentality and so it's almost always
people that are not not really
successful yet maybe they've had a
little bit of success at taste
but the same mentality as those phony
actors that haven't made it whether they
don't say nice to meet you because they
might have met you already so that is a
good to see you good to see you
what does that mean you know me and my
friend Dwayne Kennedy we were we uh we
work on our show one time when we were
walked a lot and we would just walk up
to him we go
I mean good things a man I'm hearing
good things yes good actors yes yeah I
have a person I know
and her boyfriend is a cop not a comic
an actor that hasn't made it and he's
brutal because all he talks about is
like that this guy I don't like his
choices like you can't you can't even
watch a preview with him Oh God
yeah like whatever happened to his
career like bitch you don't have a
career what are you saying when he's
shitting on this guy pay attention to
you and you have a busy busy but it's
it's not just that it's like it's
uncomfortable to be around them because
that's all they care about is making it
and acting it's all they care about
they're not like balanced people that
can just talk true yeah I know some
comics like that yes damn when you're
struggling when you're in the struggle
yeah the struggle is a motherfucker
because it's a mindfuck and then also
the pressure of that struggle overwhelms
you and then when you actually do get a
break it's there's so much weight to it
you can't carry it carry it do you have
anything now do you look back at maybe
have you seen some Khomeini's like cuz
like when you're in that struggle you're
not your best self right yeah for sure
yeah have used to have you like ever
like made amends or anything like you
know or just like forgiving people like
quietly because you understand it now
it's kind of like being a pair like
before your parent you have you see the
world one way then you become a parent
yeah you know they it's like you know I
talk about that a lot that I think of
people as being I meet a guy he's 42
he's always been for you - no it's just
this is who
and I realized oh here's a baby he was
yeah he's a baby and then he went
through all these years and hearing is
all fucked up and confused yes yeah yes
it's all I'm fascinated but that too I'm
a very forgiving person I forgive people
as often as I can
yeah I don't think there's any there's
no benefit to holding a grudge I agree -
I agree with that especially in our
business we're in a wild business where
people take chances
right wild people to take chances like
you got a customer yeah and I love that
you always embrace that like you you
know who else embraces people being over
they arm
Debbie Allen is like that yeah yeah man
it's like people want to protect people
like you know I mean yeah they kind of
like walk the world like with no
judgment and I like I I like being like
that like I love when people do fucked
up shit I know I'm fasting I'm like I
would just want to wallow and then what
maybe you should I like I like people
realizing that they fucked up and then
talking about their fuck-ups I like that
that's but that's what makes that's the
deck I saying greatness and you know
talented people the people that can
embrace it
I think transcend I think you're mopping
it's just a powerful human quality yeah
to forgive people ability humility is
big but also just just being a nice
person is so valuable it's so valuable I
love hugging people man I love to see I
love one of the things I love most about
come to the store or the improv is
seeing all my friends I loved it we're
all in this weird business together but
I've been told I'm too nice no I've been
told I'm too nice your fuck told you
that man out some asshole well gets
gonna have another special no
that'sthat's poor yeah you're too nice
but now you haven't had a special
because you concentrated on writing
that's all it is you're not too nice
yeah that's all bullshit that's crazy
people when you when things aren't going
well right assholes on the outside come
up with solutions you're too nice I know
it's do different he just starts dealing
right he might have to toss the old man
to fire your agent he's been with me
from the beginning
people
yeah there's always some solution that
they've got yes that's a dangerous thing
when things aren't going well you need
to do is people yeah all you need to do
is listening people even people that are
really good people come up with bad
solutions oh yeah like my manager my own
manager of I've had four I found my
manager when I was an open mic er he
found me when I was open mic are in
Boston I've had him ever since but in
the beginning he wanted me to be clean
he's like you gotta be clean you gotta
be clean clean your act up you get on TV
clean your act up but he he let it go
pretty quickly but it's also because
things aren't going well right you know
I have shit going on nothing's happening
so people like hmm how do we make it
happen for you you got to be clean you
told me I got to dress up nice and be
clean yeah two pieces of terrible advice
do you think is still value in that like
like why don't they have a late-night
talk show with comics can just do their
actual act it would have to be on the
Internet the problem is all those
goddamn people you're talking about like
the same reason why you can never have
this fight companion or even this
podcast on a network there was too many
people would interfere they would you
know like I have a friend who's an
executive may actually talk to me about
the you know it's not probably a lot of
other things you could do with the show
yeah you know you could do this and you
can do it okay hey hey stop you're never
gonna get a job here I'm never gonna
you're not gonna come over to the wild
side like this is you can't handle this
this is not you this is this is the
Internet is a different thing man the
Internet is a different thing and if you
you involve the Internet yeah and you
try to bring the Hollywood people over
the they'll just fuck it up yeah they're
just ruin it yeah
so if any kind of wild ass late-night
talk show you have comics sitting around
they'll ruin that you'd have to bring
that over here you have to bring it over
to the dark side and just let people
just get all you need is a conference
table and some fucking cameras and
internet connection boom you're on
YouTube of doing it that's all you need
in context with all of it that's why not
man
I'll be watching stuff go man
so do you everyone every comic should
have yeah a podcast just like every
comic has of social media it's really
that simple to me I'm uh I'm getting
offer that shit though social media i'ma
keep it but I'm following nobody
no no offense it's very addictive
unfollowed you this morning thank you
because I tell people to their face yo
followed you then unfollowed you just
very distracting
yeah it totally isn't on my goddamn or
pictures of my dog why am i doing so
it's a time waster yeah man so I'm going
it y'all can follow me Owen Smith for
real whatever no real man whatever I'm
trying yeah I'm not I'm not following
nobody I'm sorry yeah I'm gonna give it
all my Twitter followers like if I know
you and I see you I'm gonna engage that
way I'm only gonna post stuff that I
feel this funny in fun or whatever it's
a good promotional tool that's it but
that's it yeah I'm worried about the
addictive nature of social media it's
very addictive yeah it's very hard to
like you could when I take a shit in the
morning I'll go over my email first see
if it ends in court like sees a funny
line enters Instagram yeah and then I
like Lil Duval which makes me laugh I go
to that shit first he's the best him and
Kyle Dunnigan are the best follows son
Instagram it was funny oh he's from the
Baja I was born in Bahamas
fuck it's so funny man I'm saw I sold a
show to ABC you know I wrote it and they
asked me like who do you want to star in
it hmm and the whole network thing I was
like I don't even know if he fucking
with TV now cuz his music career he's
doing so well with with performing live
it would be a demotion
you know man complains yeah yes there's
two planes yeah I know I know I know it
crazy talk about it but I just think
he's sold like you trust him yeah and
I'm saying like it's like it's certainly
when you see him yeah you know his goal
is to be funny yeah and you just trust
it yeah even though he hasn't
quote-unquote been number one on a car
seat before I was
man this dude will be he would be the
murderous to be murdered but it's a news
too late he's free already made his fate
they passed on the show so I didn't have
to go do with the casting thing anyway
yeah back in my mind I was like man he
would be the perfect if you had a show
that was produced by people that you
respect you yeah and like other comics
and like really intelligent people that
you trusted yeah that would be a
different experience completely it will
be it will be it won't even feel like
work
yeah and it would have to be people
whose lives didn't depend on the
successes are so important yes because
you could feel that shit me yes see what
notes and all of them hmm but again like
I say I chose to look at it as a
challenge let's go what is this let me
see how I can you know what this well it
clearly benefits your stand-up writing
because yeah you have this your stand-up
you have you vary widely in your
subjects you also you you have this
approach you have a you have a very
comprehensive approach to subjects when
you you you examine subjects well you
know and I think a lot of that comes
from your writing and a lot of that
comes from also dealing with network
notes and dealing with executives like
there's there's a benefit but the
benefits done you already got all the
good parts are yeah yeah you got to
break free of the tit gotta break free
man so there it is text Owen calm do you
could do so many different things man
all right I'm different things I'm me
hates you up and if you want to do some
gigs of me I got a bunch gig I'm
announcing a giant tour tomorrow yeah
yeah hey yeah just come out tomorrow
this will come out come on tomorrow yeah
tomorrow
okay so haha good morrow meaning today
so I'm announcing that's great yay yes
let's do it
I'd love to take you out I would love it
there's marinas yes what's the biggest
place you have performed at Radio City
Music Hall how many's Russell Peters uh
maybe six thousand Oh straight up and
let me tell you the Comedy Store my
training in the Comedy Store prepared me
for that yeah cuz that the run-through I
was like how am I gonna play this
because
it just goes up right when I was on
stage the way is set intimately I felt
like the you are really it felt like the
ill also from a technical perspective I
just had to stand there and trust the
material and then when I would act out
something it was so much more effective
then the first nesting like I got a work
this stage oh yeah I'm saying it's like
if I was a couple of you know just
because of my building my height I was
trying to figure out what's the best way
to like connect there's some people like
the pace yeah and pacing us is fine but
it's kind of a in you yes and and and
and sometimes I pace but but the more I
know it the Stiller I can get and then I
can I can play now I'm playing you know
what I mean I was like it's just the is
the work of it all so when I did Radio
City story it was fun it's fun like I
love arenas because there's no it's um
you forget when the drinks are being
boarded in tabs opinion huh you don't
have that like they're actually just
yeah yeah like oh shit like it's just a
different he's done one in the round yet
not yet that's wild
I can't wait that's where you pacing
around it's fun a be fun is fuck man
like I just get man I get chills just
thinking of like when I first started
we're not a few auditoriums I did in a
few arenas nothing not not arenas
theater theaters this is like I'm that
like I love that shit
well especially for your style of comedy
to you love him you have comedy to
that's got plenty of room to think about
what you're saying yeah you know and
that's what you in the theater you got
to kind of slow things down a little bit
because I remember I went to watch Lewis
Black me and Joey yes yes watch Lewis
Black he was performing a night before I
was okay and we were just we flew in
early and and Joey was like let's go
across the street because that was where
the theater was and so we got in we sat
down and I realized that when he's that
maybe there was in New Jersey might be
the theater didn't have the best sound
nothing New Jersey has a bad thing when
he was in his middle of his he was
killing I had this big laugh and then he
would say a tag line
and I couldn't hear the tagline because
everybody around me was laughing and
then I realize like oh you got to hold
these these taglines a little in a place
like this because the laughter is too
loud because you actually hear people
next to go
ha ha ha ha and you can't hear what the
fuck he's saying unless the volume so
overwhelming like you got to know and
then on stage it's hard to realize that
because there's the monitors and the
monitors are you know you can hear
yourself very loud there so you might
not the people in the audience might not
be able to hear it as clearly it is a
different pacing thing I love it though
man this is so interesting about that is
when you what I like to do sometimes is
look at what other acts come to that
venue in a lot of times it was like if
it's like um you know jazz ensembles or
things where is not like a lot of
laughter mm-hmm like in that space you
got to remember like it's 52 weeks in
the year maybe for those weeks it's us
right I mean yeah every time it's like
it's dance there's all these other
things
ya know doing this shit so yeah that the
place is even like what the fuck is all
this noise like consisting at a rapid
yes yeah you do it bounces and you gotta
like this that's different
what's your thing that you do when
people are laughing a lot you don't say
like if they if you got a lot of laughs
you know so you know some people like to
do that fake laugh if I laugh it isn't
laughing no I know laughs yeah let's
take a puff yeah like what's your oh
just in the moment man I stay in the
moment I try to stay in the moment but I
definitely never give off a fake laugh
yes if I'm laughing it's because I think
it's funny in the moment they're so
gross this to fake laughs that I just
can't tolerate yeah I see guys fake
laugh even good comic sometimes I want
to go please stop I know I know please
stop because sometimes it's funny
sometimes it really is funny but you're
lying to me you're pretending do you
think this is hysterical right now when
you said it 150 times in a row exactly
the same way and you pretended like you
just realized how funny it is right I
had a tag line the other night that I
never used before and right after I said
I start cracking back to
the best that came out of nowhere
because I realized like there's a I had
a point in the middle of this bit and I
said the point and they're like cuz it
was so ridiculous
and it was all so real like in the
moment I came up with it I ad libbed
I set it on the spot and then I started
laughing those are those are real laughs
but I don't hardly ever laugh along
unless I'm really I might be real high
sometimes of just you know most the time
I'm in the groove right you're just
thinking about what I'm doing I'm just
trying to do it my best but there's
times when I'm up there I'm like man I
can't believe I get to do this can't
believe it remember you go back to
thinking about time when you were 19
you're watching Chris and Tony and then
think now you know you get to do it in
the best comedy clubs in the world yeah
and it's just the greatest job on earth
it's nothing like it there's nothing
like it
and so that's bringing back to Malcolm
Gladwell man see you in these comedy
streets oh my god I was like God like
for real ask my wife like I couldn't I
can't I couldn't listen to him for a
minute and that was my man has he had
these podcasts mm-hmm when he was
dissecting stuff and you know he's a
brilliant guy fan and sometimes
brilliant people overestimate their
perceptions they overestimate their
their ability to break something down
yes I mean that like I've had
conversations with people about fighting
that way
where people say hey if anybody ever
came out to me I would do this and then
I would do that if they say that Mike
Walker this is a it's hard for me to
hear I'm just gonna let you talk because
really I want to just tackle you right
now yeah people have this idea cuz a
person moves in a way that's similar to
the way that they can move they think I
could do that I lift weights I'll fuck
that guy up they have these ideas and
they think oh he's out there talking I'm
a brilliant guy I'm smarter than them I
understand things are I right
I'm always performing and because I'm
always talking about this I just and it
would be easy a little
Yale does it Malcolm what about do to
you is so personal why you taking my
being criticized might have to here is
exactly yeah I got a sentence we have we
found it
he was feeling something it's him and
another guy I was talking about jobs
that are really hard and he picked
stand-up comedy and there's a couple
quotes that guy defended stand-up comic
yes very well it seems like but what is
this something that you and I couldn't
figure out where where exactly was it is
it Chloe else's I was a podcast in it
somewhere like an interview okay you saw
it in quotes right right yeah can I see
the glutes oh it wasn't very it was very
clear okay
so but basically give me your synapses
of it then like he thought people were
too drunk so it was really easy
yes like there was the room was set up
for them they're coming to see them so
it's easier he just doesn't know like
he's guys are very like singular he must
have been like one or two stand-up shows
and it's like oh wow he's right
sometimes though he's right sometimes
we've all seen shows where people are
laughing at bullshit I didn't when he I
don't hear from him right show and you
went on Jeselnik went on and Diaz maybe
louis c.k dry right dave chappelle did
ten minutes now can get their good
fucking luck not having a heart attack
but he's also right in that we've all
seen mediocre thoughts get passed off in
the audience laughs like there's certain
clubs I don't want to mention any names
but you can go to them any night of the
week in Burbank or in North Hollywood
okay since dogshit comedy and people are
laughing they're laughing and it's like
real clunky low-rent what if that's the
only look that's what he was like he
knows it could be where he was straight
beer but I mean this is a difference
between talking about any sport right
you could watch someone do it poorly on
a playground or you could watch someone
do it exquisitely as a professional and
you go oh oh here it is Gladwell stated
comedians deal with people in a tightly
controlled setting that he cannot
imagine an easier set of circumstances
for navigating a social situations and
a stand-up comedian they go to Vegas
they go to the Comedy Cellar
they control their environments I was
like this this is who what is this
article that's shitting on it what's it
from Malcolm Gladwell fails stand-up
comedy 101 was the person who wrote it
was have their name anywhere really it's
the guy who's dead calm Nathan Tim old
calm Nathan Nathan the comic yeah well
he's right yeah yeah I mean he's
Malcolm's right in a sense he's right in
a sense but he doesn't understand is
there's a mind wrestling that's going on
before you actually go and do that and
to sort of diminish the difficulty of
that it just shows that you haven't done
it that's what it felt like
yeah and so I was like I couldn't I
couldn't because he said it in the same
exact voice he says everything else is
so when he was breaking down something
that I really want to hear I'm not sick
he's so brilliant in so many different
ways I couldn't shake it I was yeah that
10,000 hours shit yeah he wrote outliers
right that's him right yes yeah that
that book is amazing what talks about
the Beatles and know the beat like
people think the Beatles came out of
nowhere
those motherfuckers did thousands and
thousands of shows that's what's up it's
just numbers yeah it's numbers and
concentration and focus and just with
that being what you really want yeah you
know it's not just numbers it's numbers
of like passion numbers of focus yeah
yeah yeah he's wrong he's wrong but but
I get it I get why he thinks as it is a
tightly controlled environment but it's
so easy to bomb and that tightly
controlled environment has no idea some
doesn't Averell some some rooms are
tightly controlled in right but starting
we didn't know we can form in tightly
controlled environments
yeah backyard bars bars
yeah yeah like there's so many other
spots but you also have to make comedy
happen yeah and those phases where
there's a big moat between you and the
audience I did a Jackson jail strip club
Jack and Jill strip club in Woonsocket
Rhode Island there's a guy once a is you
there's a guy named Brian dearie he used
to book these gigs I think still around
he should book these gigs in Rhode
Island and some of them were great but
occasionally they were terrible and this
one as far as I know I think I was alone
I think I was a one-and-done
okay I think they killed it after either
because it was only like four people in
the crowd and I went up and it was a guy
and a girl Jack and Jill strip club is a
there's an old concept that didn't
really take off where couples would go
and the guy would go and strip and the
girl would go and strip and they both
looked like their parents drank while
they were in the room both they're both
had terrible tattoos this guy had
terrible tattoos and he had them covered
with bandanas so you're like like
bandanas around his arm you can see like
the shitty tattoo poking out of the
bottom and he wasn't it was built goofy
he's built like a guy who like lifts
weights but he drinks every night I mean
like it wasn't strong potbelly it wasn't
like if you go to Vegas and you see
those like the men from down under their
noses
they're both disgusting they're both
disgusting it was and I'd like to say I
bombed but bombing usually you hear some
noise right like people are mad at you
it was they were not even recognizing
that I was talking oh my god so I got
offstage and there was like a little
pool table in the back and there was a
dude who just happened to be in town
because his family lived there because
it was around the holidays
and his family lived in Rhode Island and
he just wanted to get out of the house
so he came to this local bar and any in
he goes hey what the fuck is this place
and I go what are you doing here and he
goes I'm just here my fucking family
lives around here and I just came here
cuz there's nowhere else to go what the
fuck is this place this is so strange
and he and I had a game of pool we were
laughing hilarious yeah I'll never
forget it
it was so strange was so strange that's
not a controlled environment those gigs
those gigs seizing you though
yes you you get you you develop the
crust yes a layer of protection where
you could go up in front of those people
yes and you also know when you get
offered those gigs
what is it gonna be like yeah just by
the tone my man is gonna be great as
always packed ions
okay all right where is it again sure
there were some that were always packed
there was some gigs and I'd get
old-school shitty bar gigs that were fun
man
yeah there were wild they made me cuz
they fed me right those gigs fed me when
I was poor but it's every situation is
different he basically saw like the
Lakers of you know stand up I mean and
he thinks it looks easy cuz they make it
look easy
yeah it falls into that trap that's all
fright yeah that's like thinking that
someone's making something thinking
thing is something is easy because
someone's a master yes like like did you
ever see that video where Michael Jordan
came out of retirement and that didn't
come out of retirement he would retired
but there was a player who had been
talking shit about yeah I saw that
oh yeah then they and and when Mike came
back he they played one-on-one he was
just destroying like sir but he did it
like laughing yes and joke and he made
it look so easy to go and then the guy
realized like oh oh there's levels I do
that I do that sometimes because you
know what else happens out here will be
working stuff out yes working stuff out
for sure I'm right now I'm not I'm not
in the gear that I would be in of course
yes I'm I'm figuring it out and this is
a safe space to try to figure it out
yeah I see some people like you know
whatever he struggled after me I'd be
like I put me in front of you and then I
would just do your best shit and I know
and I will make sure I Cassie they face
like while I'm doing that taking the
chances look Chris Rock does that better
than anybody air I've seen Chris Rock
going after people killed running killed
he gets his giant round of applause and
he was relaxed relaxed yeah this shit is
not gonna be that funny I'm gonna tell
you right now was on new shit I'm
working out it ain't that good and he'll
walk around and joke and laugh and says
it's not that good and he'll like bring
everybody down calm him down and then
purposely fuck around damon wayans used
to do that too he's so fun Damon Wayans
is he's one of the unheralded greats
he's doing it again yeah he was doing it
again but he's also doing sitcoms again
- oh yay so zone yeah
he was gonna do we had actually talked
about doing a podcast it was yeah yeah
remember he's like same thing crazy Oh
cuz he's got a show and stuff read some
drinks going though some ice starts
clinking start talking shit and he's got
some story
Damon's look he had a joke about Magic
Johnson way back in the 8th in the in
the days where when magic went back to
playing when he had HIV I would never
forget this
who's he was like everybody was afraid
to cover magic he said except for Dennis
Rodman Dennis like motherfucker I fuck
Madonna I'll spit in your mouth and
accelerate your symptoms the best joke
ever
[Laughter]
[Applause]
Damon is man oh he's an animal I got to
witness like like the stuff he says
between the lines is so complete you
know I mean he's so fucking good he
should be recognized as one of the
greatest of all time but he went and did
a bunch of TV shows and and while he was
doing those TV shows you know he did
clubs and he fucked around a little bit
like that but he didn't dedicate to it
the same way maybe Katt Williams did or
some other guys did that became huge and
you know had a bunch of big time
specials in that era but he was always
gotta meet oh yeah you could still do it
right now Damon if he wanted to go on
tour and start hitting theaters and
start doing a Netflix special he would
blow people away destroy he was wanted
to pee when I showed me it was it was
okay to be tall and funny oh that's
hilarious
no I mean like we've talked about this
yeah yeah yeah anything he was cool he
was cool and but then he could get goofy
he was silly man who's silly but goddamn
you're a great writer yeah great ride a
great performer and part of one of the
great look there's two greatest sketch
well there's a couple other ones that
are two input for pound-for-pound funny
there's in living color and number one
is Chappelle show Chappelle shows number
one cuz it only
lasted two years right and still this
day as some of the most legendary
sketches of all Clayton Bigsby well the
most legendary sketches of all time all
the Rick James shit oh yeah legendary
but in living color in that era oh my
god that era that was the show for that
era yeah
and Damon was a giant part of that and
Keane and then it was stuff you had to
see yeah race home to see you couldn't
yeah but Damon somewhere along a lot
look at the world was a different place
back then but he had decided that he was
gonna do movies remember he was in the
last Boy Scout with Bruce Willis he was
a movie star he was doing action movies
yeah you know and then he got that
sitcom he did that sitcom for a long
time and the promise it comes as they
give you that juicy check every week ooh
if you're a famous guy who's the lead of
a sitcom like guys like Kevin James
never have to work again ever ever for
life you get that juicy check that juicy
the show went for six years check yeah
it's a trap to trap for someone who's a
great comic yeah because at the end of
the day it's never gonna be as good as
doing stand-up it's never gonna feels
good there's a thing about when it pop
there's a thing about when when you hear
a dude pop in the in the main room like
you're in the back green my favorite
doesn't my in my professional life yeah
out of all the things I've done whether
it's a UFC or podcasts or TV shows that
the pop of someone murdered in a club
where you're hanging out and you watch
someone just destroying Joey Diaz did
this bit about Terry Crews that they cut
out of his Netflix special yeah yeah it
was too risky literally crazy Netflix
was like fuck you it was because it was
a me-too thing and it was but it was
basically saying that like it was
basically mocking Terry Crews like it
was Terry Crews threatened because he's
a goddamn fucking super ass like Terry
Crews is a massive man yeah I mean the
idea that some agent touching his dick
was actually terrifying it's so
ridiculous but Joey Diaz had this bit
about you shouldn't have done that
underwear commercial with you
I'm not doing it any justice do it
anymore unfortunately but a bit me and
and and Santino we were in the back
other you are literally we couldn't stay
in the chair we were on the ground we
were just clinging to the table just
hanging on and Joey screaming and his
sweat flying off of him and he's beet
red but those are my favorite moments in
life when some of those pops you don't
get those pops and you do a sitcom you
get a lot of money you get everybody
make any bagels it's real it's one yeah
you got a parking spot but it's it's a
it's a velvet prison do you think your
insecurity rises when you are being
coddled and treated like that mine does
yeah I was wondering yeah mine does
I got fortunate in that when I did Fear
Factor I never stopped doing stand-up
and never stopped oh I was always at the
store
always keep I was scared cuz I had
fucked up during news radio when I was
on news radio I went for a long stretch
where I was barely doing stand-up
because we were long hours when a sitcom
is first getting is trying to figure it
out it's like 12 hour days it's long I
would do sets but I wasn't writing any
new material and then I had a writer one
of the writers and one of the producers
came to see me on age who bombed hard in
the main room like a Late Show on a
Friday night Friday or Saturday
I ate shit yeah I tanked Soner and I see
them they were real close to what fourth
row and like oh my god this is
embarrassing and it was only maybe 30
people in the old crowd that's tiny it
was already killing Everybody Loves
Raymond by then he was happy but hey
Maury was a friend of mine still is but
it was I was happy that I didn't take
his job I took the job of the dude who
took his job okay it was like okay this
is okay but when when I did that I
realized okay I'm fucking off here I'm
just doing this sitcom and I'm not I'm
losing the thing that I love I'm not
good anymore all right guys I sucked
yeah and then a year later I wound up
doing my Warner Brothers special my
Warner Brothers CD I've really got my
shit together again
I started doing multiple sets around
town I started writing a lot more I
started really taking it seriously
because I realize like you can't do that
you can't fall apart you can't no you
can't just start bombing no man nah man
you get soft man you can get soft and
they were making me soft too like one of
the producers was like why you still
doing stand-up I'm actor now oh that's
what everybody wanted even Seinfeld took
time off
he did he did Seinfeld then stopped
doing stand-up yeah a lot of people got
brought into that trap yeah you know
it's hard it's hard to get hired as a
writer too because it's almost I'm
learning it's almost like the difference
between improv cats and stand-up cats
right so if you're a writer if that's
what you do you write then they may feel
they may have a certain bias or feel a
certain type of way towards a comic
their rights mm-hmm okay
it's like you deal with it everywhere is
that better you can always leave always
and you always have and you have you
basically you're sitting in a room and
you got you got two jobs you know I'm
saying so I was like we got this job but
I'm also gonna do this other job yeah I
thought I might one beat no but one job
was to sit next to somebody with two
jobs I totally get it
actually with comedy because they're
comedies kind of unproven yeah like they
think they're funny right how do you
know you're funny how do you really know
I've always wondered that was like
that's a courageous thing I've ages
right now you're a comedy writer and you
don't even perform like how do you know
if it's funny like who told you you're
funny I know who told you are you sure
Malcolm Gladwell cuz I really wanna
listen to him again so I mean I'm me I
need We Need to Talk man he's right I
was the reporter if he was here right
now he would I'm sure he would see our
perspectives right and then I could
listen to him again cuz I miss it
he's right though in certain ways he's
right it's a very controlled environment
that's the reason what he saw but you
know what else I read an article by
another guy is his thing that's
happening to people who aren't that
strong in comedy or writing articles
about coming you know me like in
international finger
comic I've seen him he's not why they
speaking for us yeah and you're like
comedians another model is but he's like
oh I read this article this woman wrote
about men not being funny and I've seen
her act talking about forcing many eager
pussy and is one of the the worst bits
I've ever seen in my life and like this
is hilarious but yet she was able to
write that thing on that platform and
it's like an amazing thing that's
happening like everybody's a pundit
everybody isn't going well if there's
money to be made and clicks yeah that's
what it is if you can especially if
you're writing an article like shitting
on someone who's done something wrong
like louis c.k or someone else or Aziz
Ansari someone who's gotten in trouble
right go after them and they know
they're like that's why the pile on
happens because it gets people attention
it's a very profitable lucrative
ventures very yeah yeah yeah there's a
lot of people writing stories or
articles about comedy where they're
they're dismissive they don't know they
don't really truly understand what
they're talking about
yeah it's like so many gaps whoa what's
this and yeah all that stuff annoys me
and I don't care you much but it was so
funny cuz I when I sat he was like oh
you're Malcolm Gladwell said here do
something like that one sound - he was
on like HBO talking to Bob Costas about
comedy I'm like why is this happening
and he said and Terry said I don't know
who the next people are these young
comedians don't study that's a great
offense they don't study he said they
don't study what does that mean he said
he said they don't know they don't study
the crap you know or they don't know you
know I guess who who came before them or
what generalizations like that are so
crazy to say so here's the soul so I'm
at how most of each comedy magic club
and Jimmy Brogan who I call like the the
comic whisperer like he goes you know
Jerry's performing you want to come come
down of course so I go watch Jerry
perform and then he invites me in the
green room and when I see Jay I couldn't
help myself I go hey man you can't be
going on TV saying comedians don't study
he goes I know you a man whatever
because I studied you can't do that you
you're dismissing a whole generation
people listen to you yeah he goes
alright man fine you wanna have a seat
to my left is Jay Leno is like Kevin
Nealon is like all these heavy hitters
but I just saw him yeah and just had to
put the game yo what are you doing like
yeah you know you're right but sometimes
people say things either just talking I
don't even know if they have a point
they just hoping they could formulate it
as they're talking you're right and he
was right to to let it go it was so
chewy that was easy
mark Normand who's a friend of mine
games with him he says he's great I said
Jerry's a great guy believe it yeah and
he just well he stills doing it and he's
got five hundred million dollars in the
bank he's still doing it dude he's been
doing it well forever 80 he's always
working on it holding it you like still
does it yeah he still does it
legitimately
he's basically he's one of those guys
that did what you're telling me to do
you got it you gotta trust it all the
way ma you just gotta just do because
something you say how do I write some
days when I when all I do was write
comic oh yeah I think I could take my
bitch so yes you know and it's the best
and you know how you said that you're
consistently inconsistent yeah oh yeah
that's a that's a hallmark of a funny
person strange thing like most comics
are we are very impulsive crazy people
right you know you know we don't
necessarily have discipline you know I'm
just very fortunate that I was involved
in something else before comedy that
required discipline because you're
fucking physical health is on all of it
like you had to have discipline I'm
gonna get my brains been so like that
transfer it over to stand up but it's so
easy to fuck off man when I come home
from the Commodore and it's late at
night a lot of times I just want to go
sleep yeah I don't want to do anything I
want to watch TV on the fuck off but I
sent from that god damn laptop sitting
from that laptop I'll spark a joint I'll
go outside a sparker joint that's the
best I'll stare at this stare at the sky
yeah come back inside stare at that
laptop and then I'll start writing
and I force myself as I'm gonna do one
hour maybe I'll do more than one hour
but I'm definitely gonna do one hour and
I set a timer you ever take my Mitch
Hedberg story which one I did a skit
with him Wow when I was 26
someone yeah man so me and Mitch met at
the Chicago Comedy Festival and we
clicked right and we were walking around
was living in Chicago Tucson and we
walked around he was like you know I'm
about to be rich man deal or whatever in
much y'all I couldn't get much y'all to
like look at me but I he had just
crushed in Montreal he goes uh about to
be rich man he pulls out this velcro
wives he goes you see this ring I live
in Seattle
it's the pawn this ring so I could eat
and then I would go eat and get a gig
and then buy back I'm gonna have to do
that no more so he just sounds some big
deal so I needed a shirt for his HBO
half-hour special one when he's sitting
on the steps
mm-hmm and so I helped him pick out that
shirt and then I had a gig in Minnesota
like after the first regionals can I
ride with you
so we road trip to Minnesota because he
was from st. Paul I spent a night in his
in his home and that's me I learned he
was like a chef and all that stuff it so
we really clicked we bump into each
other on the road we were in Houston and
uh he goes when I decided I wanted to do
comedy
I had asked it I'm taking it acid I got
my notebook and everything I saw I wrote
it I was it helped me funny like that so
I did a say rhythm and and we're both in
this hotel like the woman it was a woman
who was a dealer you know she came over
and you know tell room and that's when I
learned what cartoons come from like
everything I saw was like a fucking
cartoon and I was tripping man and he
videotaped me tripping and I'm going why
is a a why is B B is the letter Green
good who said who said to like he's
videotaping me needs Lilly goes I'm that
clearly man we're going you should do
this on stage stay stay stay like I'm
like scatting man
right going and I'm seeing on saying and
then like I started I was on this whole
thing like all I kept thinking about was
pussy right and I saw and I was dating
this girl and this is back we use a
calling card was my my mom's number in
hers and I was afraid that I've called
in the girl as I was talking to her on
the phone and I was on the bed are you
high you know just fucking up the whole
thing and I go yeah don't don't do
anything don't jump I was like why are
you putting that shit in my head like
cuz whatever she saw I could see like I
could physically see it and then I look
over in the bed next to me in Mitch's
like fucking the girl that bought the
you know like oh shit I'm in the orgy
but not really like and then like my
body started shaking and the whole shit
like left my my body so that's how like
you know that was my my experience I
never did it again never desire to do it
again but I did it with Mitch and it was
like it was like this crazy thing and so
we used to we would do colleges separate
of one another and we would leave each
other notes and shit you know and he
would like kill it man or whatever and
once I was doing some college and but
fuck Pennsylvania about five but it was
it was somewhere in Pennsylvania and he
he had just done and that's when I
learned about him passing like I was
literally reading his note when I heard
about the air was reading the note that
he wrote he wrote me when the news broke
like did you hear about Mitch and it was
like yeah man me and Stan hope we're on
the song we were know together yeah when
we found out that he was no I was what
ever happened in Vegas I was in that one
I was the original this is like many
years ago yeah yeah yeah
yeah yeah come what are you doing yeah I
didn't know I could say that to him I
was I think I was in Vegas independent I
was like but we were cool so I was there
like this is crazy
Yeah right after he was married it's
something happen where his girlfriend
mouths up to a cop and they bounced her
head off the hood and arrested her Jesus
bro yeah um anyway we found out that
Mitch had been brought brought to the
hospital he thought he was gonna lose
his leg had been shooting this one same
area and he got gangrene I was like damn
and then he got free of that and and
healed up but he went right back to it
he would not you know he didn't have any
desire to kick heroin it's really
interesting like I'm not and they call
me the naive detective like I never knew
that he did that cuz whenever I saw him
we were working out he we would always
go to the gym he was mad competitive
like he would run the treadmill really
yeah he was like he was competitive like
he would he'd like me to open for him
cuz he liked to work like he was like
hmm he didn't want me to hold back he's
like oh man like I just that's the side
that I saw of him and then when he had
to deal with the show and all of that
shit he'd would do material about it
because it's it's such a different
experience than from what he is you know
yeah
dealing with the notes of it all and all
that shit he was like you know I pitched
an idea I wanted to do this idea it
became I yeah the dream is not the
reality yeah that you know but the dream
his dream was his stand up to this day
I'll still like I like to listen to his
stand-up when I'm on my way to the
airport this is like stressful it's like
but his staff was so silly
Oh silly so silly so you know so my
favorite joke his banana joke somebody
asked me do I want a frozen banana I
said no but I want a regular banana
later so yes
[Laughter]
like this he had so much of that that
was I just enjoy that it was very silly
I didn't you know I don't I don't know
what when he got into the heroin I don't
know when but yeah I mean is so crazy
like I mean I knew he did his thing but
I think people like people just never
did that shit in front of me right no
one ever did in front of me either but I
knew they were doing it
we had a buddy of mine in New York that
died from it he was snorting it yeah but
he got into pills and a lot of that's
what a lot of times they find out about
oxys and yeah these snort pills and it's
just opioids it's just that I mean that
crisis is something that just swept
through the entire world and so many
people are dying from that shit yeah man
I've never done it but I did I did get a
morphine drip once when I had my knee
fixed this is like just made you feel
like like the world was filled with love
just caressing you everything was a lot
like a womb feeling yeah protected
you're safe you're gonna be okay amazing
which makes sense that a lot of
musicians and a lot of people wanted
that because so many people that are
like really super creative or they're
they're kind of in pain a lot of those
people are like they're that like you
when you think of Nirvana you think of
Kurt Cobain the screaming all that like
this that's coming from a place of a
pain right yeah and then that dude would
go off and do heroin mmm well I'm glad
you're not doing heroin Owen nah fam I
was always know you know then he by his
passing um coke cocaine overdose scared
me from doing anything because he was
all muscle yeah and I was like if
cocaine could take him down I don't
stand a chance like I've never had a
six-pack this dude I'm a you know I'm
saying super athlete when that happened
like that's my brain was I auditioning
for me and so we'd I do I did mushrooms
once
shit my pants booze white couch oh no a
simply thing I never liked that guy
using he's like is over to me about this
purpose this shit on his dumb white
council white carpet all right man see
this we're gonna wrap this up it's three
o'clock Tech so uncom will be at the
improv together Wednesday night for the
10:30 show Owen Smith calm so your
website wasn't it like Owens calm social
media almost myth for real but most
important go to text Owen calm and I'll
send you niggas phone try to break it
phone break that shit bye everybody bye
[Music]
[Applause]